tear Wind Shear » 50
Meg Eginton, Pat Irwin, Al Taylor,
with Patricia Chen, Hilary Harper,
Denise Mostacci ;

Dance performances; culai
Laboratory Project. i

Miners B67 wasacoborave dance pice
cent chorctae eg Epon and ual ast
Aaj wt he muse composed ed pled by Pat
vin The cai exchange between Taylor and aiton
cere nase conces dan meetin thor
tal sgt of movant rae han abstract or
covet en? oar conceved sto tubular whte
forms, wich could bo moved thoughout the space,
testes wate spend at ferent high, sme

: suspended at diferent heights, some
tai and other just above the ground, asf they had

paused mial. Their nes resembled thoue ofthe a
ined Eton a wal as Pata Chen, Hey Harper,

Denise Hoss all rssdinjowe toned tard
Bncrenocl Wie Sheeran tn wel, from
goreptsnon an exlraton to rehearsals nd pro-
secon. ‘work developed entirely in the
rtf the Labora rata which was 8 the

P 3s0 explained, “designed to encourage exper-
ieraon inthe ar rows the provision of facies
for research and development from conceptuaizstion to
best walaon and psi ube presentation i
sevlpingthe abortion Pesan, andthe Corpora a

3r Art and Televison (CAT) to which it belonged (eee
idermationithedgatheredininformalconveratisns with
ariats and art orks, who reported hat th eng cea

of enibtion spaces in New York made “pure research
jevelopment and experimentation” difficult to sustain,
estefan eres were freed tapers work
that responded to the commercial market ee
This challenge was particularly acute f
articularly acute for dancers an
ee nce iemacaraces
Pp es ies since 0s. eer dear
performance artists benefited from the avallablty of
Sis scar ie OAT Laboratory ad ther po,
ams. Among them were the postmodern dancer ani
Beer ae Vea clare lies coerce
group the School of Hard Knocks; Jane Comfort, who
performed TV Love, a blend of dance and theater staged
against a backdrop of colorful gridded words; and the
Indigenous ensemble Spiderwoman Theater.

Although the CAT Laboratory Program marked @
significant shift of emphasis toward performance and
Ss 0 fa aon Boe ta earntan ll

jor innovative movement practice in the yeat

Biron Whit uated he performance
series American Dreams, which featured several solo
work including 9 one-rghtprosontatin of Adienne
Alten Oral satisfaction, thefourthpart of her ongo-
ing performance StressTest, which examined Americans’
tl to health, and Jeff McMahon's Believe You
Mo, an investigation by way of dance, video, tet

isi, and images—of "Home, the road there, and what
waits for you upon arrival." —vK ee

tov 24 Blondell Cummings, Hope
Gillerman, John Kelly, Lisa Kraus,
Harry Whittaker Sheppard ,
Retakes |
Danes p

formancos

are Younsko Chinn
‘Shoot of Mara kos

oe

DEC. 7, 1085 10PM,
ATTHE JAM GALLERY |

503-11 BWAY BET.SPRNG

AND BROOME ST. I

‘panoe: $7.00 tiFo: 1(212)966-7020

The Black Rock Coalition's
first Drop the Bomb Benefit
Bash Strafe, Cookie Watkins,
“Special Guest DJ's”
Performance

bee?

Rock'n’ Roll is Black music and we are its heirs” pro;
sree the Black Rock Coalition," which was formed
cers, and artists who

sistance

in the fall of 1985 by musicians, we

were frustrated with the music industry's Fe
k music. A weekly meeting

xo held at Just Above Midtown, headed by JAM friends
eet, and Greg Tate!”

ri Allen, Melvin
Goes and Bruce Mack, who would later form the band
Burnt Suger the Arkestra Chamber with Tate. The group
1d constructive dis-

Aussions about the state of the music industry to cre:

rd musi

as Tate
iptobein
the Black

to Black people playing roc!
including Vernon Reid, Craig St
‘Among the other core members were Get
quickly moved from thoughtful an‘

ating thelr own programming geared towal

who occupied the fringes. At a moment when,
putt, “Black people were Just getting picked

hythm sections for people like David Bowie,”
Rack Coalition stood critical of the white rock industry
and supportive of “those who rock black." The orga

zation continues its vital work today. —"=

pweos Peter Rose with Noah Shapiro
‘A Work in Progress

be218 Diamond Feve!
jerfornances (IR, SA)

peor B Culture: “Sushi and the Crips"
Launch Party

there is nosuch thing as white ink" read the tagline of B
‘Culture (1986-87), which was conceived and edited by
caisiclan and musiccritic Greg Tate and music producer
‘Graig Dennis Street, and provided a platform for Black
crarSors working across various mediums and styles,
Fre tirstigeue, “Sushi and the Crips,’ takes readers from
Jrthur Jafa'enotes on Black cinema to graff artiste diss
asians of thelr eraft to an interview with saxophonist
Gvayne Shorter to a short story by Ntozake Shane, The
rari, “Voodoo Against Racism,” includes an inter
eee with Miles Davis, a centerfold photograph by Lorn
Sifapeon, and a provocative yet playful erie of Andy
Simhol by Tate. The third and final issue, “Closes”
‘pens with a neo-noir comic strip about an antiner,

"B Culture was the second of twoartists quarteries
Jampreducedduringitsdecadelongrun bothof hich
Jared to expand what the form could offer artists
are urters. The first was the fourssue Black Currant
tig8283), concelved and edited by artist Janet Oft6
eay-in fk, Henry featured origina artist projects hat
pushed the boundaries of three besie forma! ‘and con
Ceptual elements of publications: authorship,
$F Tanguage. In vol. ne. 1, the space between Pages

aogear third dimension and the fulorum for narrative
ac herence. Each of the dozen contributing artists We
Given a aquare on each ofthe ten pages for an brads
of their making. As the reader flips throu

Shoy ean either understand te images which includ
photographic portalts, text images, owe drawings,
aetsbatract designsin elation to their counterpart
ane Re same page or fllow each arte’ contributions

ioe Cover of 8 alter
os (ns) ede by Oe
ears

Taisen ceed Dans Sre¥t-
‘Photworaph by itt Seale

