vun2- ‘Tim Wilkins

vun2t Chalcedony, Gem Stone City

vun2s- Z. K. Oloruntoba

tugi An Evening of Immortality
with David Hammons in Los Angeles
“Wulti-media evening” and
“benefit for JAN”

wov4- Alonzo Davis

Nev? Direction

peci- Christmas Sale Exhibition

DecSt  *consisting primarily of Gallery artists”

1976

wars3- Light Textures/3 Photographers:
Albert Fennar, Adger W. Cowans
and J, Pinderhughes

mar 2- Jorge Luis Rodriguez
Circulos » 68

4pré- David Hammons

#28 Dreadlock Series

Ny 7- Milton Moss

un 5

von? Catti James

‘28 Mirror as Medium

vuts- Summer Group Exhibition

#022 Charles Abramson, Marjorie Di Lascia,
David Hammons, Bill Harris, Noah Jemison,
Michele Liebrum, Fern Logan, Valerie
Maynard, Milton Moss, Pablo Romero, Randy
Williams

wiz Brunch with JAM

Brunch with JAM was an attempt to reach a wider audi-
ence—specifically, the young professionals working in
Midtown." For this purpose, the program took place
during the work week, once a week for approximately
amonth:* For a few dollars, anyone was welcome at the
gallery fora meal—often aslice of quiche—and a lecture
given by an artist, a curator, or a historian, followed by
a discussion.” Faythe Weaver, a volunteer at JAM, pre-
pared the food, as she had cooked her way through a
Julia Child cookbook and recently bought a Le Creuset
pot with the goal of “mastering the art of French cook-
ing.” Weaver had to do the cooking at her apartment
(there were no kitchen appliances at JAM) and bring the
food to the gallery in plastic bags,

When AC Hudgins, another volunteer anda recent
business-school graduate, passed out flyers on the

street to publicize Brunch with

he was often met with disbelief;

in the commercial art world at the ti
according to Linda Goode Bryant, “alwa\
which, for JAM, was a crowd of about twenty to twen-
ty-five people.” The program exemplified the inventive-
ness that kept JAM running, as well as the dedication
of those closest to it. Weaver and Hudgins emphati-
cally recall that although “people had no money,” JAM
friends and staff pitched in whatever they could for sup-
plies. “People believed in [the idea of JAM] and were
willing to put their time, heart, and spirit into it,” Weaver

said. “It was the community. We were all friends and we

supported each other.” —MI

Sepi4- Gallery Group Exhibition
°et7 David Hammons, Palmer Hayden, Valerie
Maynard, Jorge Luis Rodriguez, Randy

Williams
octe- Joe Harris
oct90  Xerograms
Wov2- Statements Known and
Nov 20

Statements New »,

Jim Dine, Helen Frankenthaler, David
Hammons, Noah Jemison, Jasper Johns,
Robert Motherwell, Robert Rauschenberg,
Jorge Luis Rodriguez, Raymond Saunders

“I saw the need to create a forum that presented
Afro-American artists on the same platform with
other established artists.”"* This is how Linda Goode
Bryant described the stakes of Statements Known and

wove Jorge Luis Rodriguez,
‘Proparator}

-y sketch for the
artist's exhibition Cireulos.
c. 1976. Pencil on papor,
BY x 11 in (24.6 « 30 cm).

‘Collection the artist

15, Unless otherwise noted, the infor
‘mation and quotations in this text
‘come from conversations the auther
had with Linda Goode Bryant on
‘January 12, 2022; with AC Hudgins in
‘the summer of 2021} and with Faythe
‘Weaver on November 12, 2021.

16. After this period, Brunch with
JAM became a series of private meals
at the homes of an emerging class
of potential Black art collectors,
‘which were attended by JAM artists
and aimed at fostering connections
between the two groups.

17. Promotional material promised
presentations on the topics of “art
“awareness,” “the new collector”
“gallery dealers through history," and

Mewopolitan 2
Patterson Sims, O. K. Harris Gallery”
‘Announcement for Brunch with JAM,
n.d. [1976]. JAM Records, Box 53,
‘untitled folder.

Bere a
Benny Andrews”

‘Madison Avenue,” Encore: American
and Worldwide News, March 21,
1977, 24,

