individuals recognized as visual artists presented dance
ormusical performancesata benefitat Stilwende—a bur-
geoning nightclub thathad recently opened near the gal-
lery—which JAM produced as part of ongoing fundrais-
ing to meet the requirements of a National Endowment
for the Arts Challenge Grant for general funding." The
actress Diane Keaton, for example, was represented by
aselection of photographs from her Reservations series,
depicting scenes of empty hotel interiors;* the photog-
rapher Ming Smith performed a dance.

The essay the art historian Judith Wilson wrote for
the planned exhibition catalogue positioned the show
ina longer history of avant-garde interdisciplinarity. The
Renaissance-like creativity Wilson recognized in the art-
ists of her own time was more and more at odds with a
cultural landscape that increasingly prioritized categori-
zation for the sake of the market. She asked, “What's the
difference between a vocation and an avocation? How
does this distinction influence our judgement of a work of
art? And, does this distinction primarily reflect aesthetic
principles, psychological assumptions, or economic con-
siderations?" By way of a response to these questions,
Crossovers rejected a divide between primary and sec-
‘ondary pursuits and, as with other JAM programs, mod-
eled cross-pollination, bringing together diverse creative
professionals, audiences, andideas. —LRT

Deceit Crossovers/Video

Merrill Aldighieri, Robert Ashley, Richard
Bone, Doris Chase, Gloria Deitcher, Peter
Gordon, Any Greenfield, Greg Jones, Jill
Kroesen, Linda Mussman, Meredith Monk, Bob
Rosen, Alex Roshuk, John Sanborn, Laurie
Speigel, Joe Tripician, Reynold Weidenaar

Organized by Gloria Deitcher for D. Visions
and JAM

1982

Release of the film The Business
of Being an Artist p 124

In 1978, after four years of consulting with artists
through the gallery, Linda Goode Bryant concluded
that there was a need for a formalized professional

ROBERT ASHE) toma
«7

m
Mk KROEsey

Aux

soe TRIPIIAN

«
pov st"

ZS

amy GREENFIELD

.. GROSS OVERS *
* VADEO

D-VISIONS and JusT

MERRIE gy o1GHIER!
Greg JONES

E_MIDTOWN | DOWNTOWN

development program on the structure of the art world,
and she promptly developed one, calling it the Business
of Being an Artist (BBA).** One of the first of its kind, the
BBA program, which ran until 1983, consisted of two
parts: first, reviews of individual artists’ work by JAM
staff, with consideration for JAM exhibitions, and,
second, a thirty-three-week in-person course. True
to the gallery's egalitarian spirit, anyone could enroll,
regardless of education or exhibition history, for spe-
cific sessions or the program in full, and scholarships
were available. Guest speakers—gallerists, artists,
framers, and leaders of cultural organizations, among
others—presented on topics including “Housing and
Workspace,” “Artists Rights,” and “The Art Market:
Patronage and Collecting.”

The program continued even when JAM was
between spaces and expanded once the gallery
reopened in Tribeca. In 1982, seeking to support artist
communities beyond New York City and to generate
revenue for the gallery, Goode Bryant outlined a plan
to produce a box-set video series under the auspices
of ArT.V., JAM’s new video arm. For collaborators she
enlisted video artist Dieter Froese as director, Wade
Miller as production manager, and Cathey Billian as dis-
tribution manager.** The planned series would replicate
the BBA curriculum with videos outlining the practical
skills, individuals, and institutions involved in making
and selling contemporary art.

Only one film was ever made. True to the ethos of the
program, it is both experimental and educational, and
serves as an overview centered on the question “What
is the business of being an artist?” The footage includes
interviews with representatives from a wide swath of the
artworld: large institutions like MoMA, alternative spaces
like JAM, high-end galleries such as Mary Boone, and
individual artists’ studios. One scene features a mon-
tage of VHS boxes labeled “ART” stacking up in a freeze-
frame, one by one, until the boxes fill the screen, as the
narrator proclaims, “Production of multiples is another
means by which artists can distribute their work, Editions

asove Flyer for Cr
Video, 1981

