True to JAM’s mission of exploring the structural issues
of the art world—realized through programs like the
Business of Being an Artist (see Chronology, p. 98)—
What | Do for Art addressed a seemingly inescapable
dilemma for artists: how to balance an artistic practice
with a livelihood, Rather than perpetuate the commonly
held view that this is inherently a struggle, the exhibi-
tion brought together twenty visual artists, two perfor-
mance duos, and a musician to demonstrate how artists’
occupations exist in union with their artistic practices,
not apart from them. The show provided a means of rec-
ognizing the totality of artists’ lives when considering
their work.

In an essay in the accompanying catalogue titled
“What Has Been Done for Art,” Lisa Nicol Peters, the
assistant editor of Print Collectors Newsletter, provided
a historical perspective, adeptly tracing the occupa-
tions of artists from ancient Egypt to modern times.**
The book also included a personal statement from each
artist in the show about their relationship to their job—
as a security guard, a minister, a hairdresser, and an
erotic dancer, to name a few—revealing the diversity of
experiences that shaped the work on view.

Daniel Dawson, a curator of photography at The
Studio Museum in Harlem andamember of the Kamoinge
Workshop, a collective of Black photographers, viewed
his art as inseparable from his work.** In both his photo-
graphs and his curatorial practice, he sought to reflect
the transcendent nature of African culture, in which
visual art and music intertwine.*” Sandra Payne, a librar-
jan, wrote that her profession's collecting practices
impacted her own collection of the signs and symbols
that made up her collages and wall installations (see
also Chronology, p. 158).*° She was also deeply influ-
enced by psychic readings. In The Madame C. J. Walker
Beauty Manual . . . (1981), which was included in the

exhibition, Color-aid-paper cutouts of the artist's hands
reference the act of “the laying on of hands,” a symbol
of the psychic’s spiritual relationship with their client. In
other works, Payne made references to the healer, con-
struction worker, seamstress, and archeologist—pro-
fessions that, in the artist's view, created myst
solved dilemmas**—encapsulating the exhibi
versal approach. What I Do for Art proposed a paradigm
shift, or, as Dawson alluded to in his catalogue entry, a
way for artists to circumvent restrictive definitions and
to claim their dynamic place in society. —eB

The Little Tommy Parker Celebrated

Jun 6
Colored Minstrel Show
Reading/performance
Written by Carlyle Brown
Read by the Laughing Mirror Theater
Part of the June Folk Music Festival

Juni? Megan Roberts and
Raymond Ghirardo
Grand Prix Co-winners: Fourth
Tokyo Video Festival
Video screening, organized by Gloria
Deitcher

sep9- Naomi Dickerson

Sep? Installation/Three-Dimensional
Drawing
Main Gallery

sep9- Leonard Mainor

Sep22 Drawings/Gradient Fields
Main Gallery

seps- Brad Melamed

Sep28  Installation/The Days of Our Lives
Undercurrents Gallery

Sep 24- Dinosaur Project

Sep26 The Book of Outrage
Performance on New York City's public
transit system, “Trains: IND line, A, E,
F (also the Staten Island Ferry and the
Shuttle)"

oct7- Kit-Yin Snyder

Oct 27 Architectural Installation
Main Gallery

oct7- Ellen Weider

Oct 27 Paintings on Paper
Main Gallery

oct7- Russell Redmond

Oct 27

Sculpture
Undercurrents Gallery

opposte Covers of Black
Currant 4, no. 1 (4982);
2, no. 2 (1983)
no. 2 (1982). Designed by
Janet Olivia Henry

Lert View of the exhibition
What I Do for Art, 1982.
Works by Angelo (eft
and middle), Sydney Blua
(right), and Barry Holden
(foreground)

45, Lisa Nicol Peters, "What Has
Been Done for Art" in What I’Do for
Ari 1D.

46. Dawson, “Some Thoughts on Art
and Occupation.”

47. John Edwin Mason, “The
‘Sounds They Saw: Kamoinge and

Sarah Eckhards (Richmond: Virginia
Museum of Fine Arts, 2020), 119.
48. Sandra Payne, untiled statement,
in What I Do for Arr 42.

49, Payne, unpublished artist state~
ment, 1980. JAM Records, Box 57,
“Sandra Payne.”

