1974

Novis- Synthesis: A combination of parts
Jan3@ or elements into a complex whole

Camille Billops, Vivian Browne, Elizabeth
tees Dan Concholar, Alonzo Davis, David
mmons , Suzanne Jackson, Norman Lewis,
vuleria Maynard, RoHo, Russ Thompson,
Randy Williams

True to its title, Just Above Midtown’s inaugural exhibition
broke through stylistic, generational, and geographical
divides. At the time, the discourse among Black artists
in New York was often framed in terms of the opposition
between figuration and abstraction.’ Likewise, there was
a split between artists living in New York and those living
everywhere else, with mainstream exhibition opportuni-
ties for the latter few and far between.? Synthesis included
works in a wide range of styles by both established New
York artists (Camille Billops, Vivian Browne, Norman Lewis,
and Valerie Maynard) and emerging ones (Russ Thompson
and Randy Williams) as well as by a younger generation
of artists based in Los Angeles (Dan Concholar, Alonzo
Davis, David Hammons, and Suzanne Jackson). Elizabeth
Catlett was the sole artist living abroad, in Mexico.

Among the most imposing works in the show were
two abstract paintings by Lewis, No. 2 (1973; plate 3)
and No. 7 (1973), the former featuring a primarily black
composition enriched by colorful undertones and white
lines, some made with chalk, others the result of the artist
blocking off parts of the canvas before applying pigment.
Jackson's MaeGame (1973; plate 1), another large-scale
painting that was on display, depicts two partial female
figures floating alongside a flower, a bird, and a silhou-
ette of trees that resembles a cluster of people. Homage
to My Young Black Sisters (1968), a wooden sculpture of
an abstracted woman raising her fist, by Catlett, signaled
the historic ties of figurative Black art to the Black Power
movement and connected the different generations of
artists on view. Also included were Browne's paintings
Untitled (Man in Mountain) (plate 2) and For You, both
from 1974, and both featuring a hazy figure reminiscent
of those that populate the artist's Little Men series, which
depicts male archetypes she encountered in her day-to-
day life. The figure in Untitled (Man in Mountain) is sur-
rounded by patterns inspired by her travels to Africa.

Through thelively conversation between the diverse
artworks on the walls, as well as the spirited exchanges
that took place among the large crowd that attended
the opening, JAM charted new territory, offering artists
of color a space where their work was not confined by
a single definition, true to the idea of a “combination of
parts or elements.” —LRT

1975

175-76 Sunshine Circle Preschool

Agroup of mothers hung out at JAMwith theirchildrenon
Saturday mornings. As they gathered every week, they
wondered, “Why aren't we creating the environment
that we want our kids in?” From their conversations

emerged the Sunshine Circle Preschool, which oper-
ated in West Harlem. Linda Goode Bryant enrolled her
son in the school and debated its pedagogical model
with the other parents, including actor Morgan Freeman
and his wife, Jeanette Bradshaw; jazz producer Carol
Cole; film director and producer Michael Schultz and
his wife, actor Gloria Schultz (whose stage name was
Lauren Jones); and model Barbara Summers. They hired
Suzette Wright, a teacher, to run the classes, which
emphasized experiential learning, treated “art as the
lens for approaching each subject,” avoided gendered
language, andallowed children of differentages to learn
together in a single classroom.‘ Ten children attended
the school during its first year and twenty in its second
and final year. This enterprise illustrated how JAM func-
tioned as a nexus of mutual support for Black creatives
ofall types. The close-knit interdependence at the heart
of the school inadvertently led to its closure when many
of the actors and filmmakers involved migrated to Los
Angeles, a change that also resulted in an “absence of
that type of creative energy” inthe city. —mr

Jan25~ Palmer Hayden » 56

Unseen Watercolors and Drawings
Fobs- Wilfred M. Thomas
Febs- Russ Thompson ») 49

Pte sve
cen we

nm
Milton Moss, 1976

LEFT, Borrow Children playing,
c. 19708

1. For two texts with divergent
perspectives on the political impli-
cations of this debate, published in
the decade prior to JAM's founding,
see Raymond Saunders, Black Is a
Color (xelf-pub 196;

Jeff Donaldson, "The Role We Want
for Black Arr," in Black Are Notes,
ed. Tom Lloyd (1971; facsimile ed.,
Brookiyn, NY: Primary Information,
2021), 13-15.

2. Linda Goode Bryant has explicitly
cited the lack of existing exhibition
‘opportunities for West Coast artists as
fone impetus for showing their work
at JAM. Goode Bryant, conversations
with the author, 2021-22. See also
*Can JAM Be JAM at MoMA? A
Conversation betweea Linda Goode
Bryant and Thelma Golden," in the
present volume, p. 14.

3.The information and quotations in
this text come from conversations the
author had with Linda Goode Bryant
on January 12, 2022.

4. Wright also became the subject of
one of David Hammons's body prints
‘when she participated in the Body.
Print-In organized in conjunction with
his JAM exhibition Greasy Bags and
Barbeque Bones, in 1975. Linda Goode
‘Bryant, “In Conversation: Linda

1968-1979, exh. cat. (New York: The
Drawing Center, 2021), 22.
