Colescott and Wifredo Lam, and of live work by
Urban Bush Women and Thought Music. She also
wrote reviews of shows at JAM, including Noah
Jemison’s solo presentation in 1977. Judith Wilson,

a Californian, was more directly a part of the art
journalism apparatus. Wilson turned to art writing

in the late 1970s, covering shows at JAM and the
Studio Museum and the artists in those circles, such
as Pindell, Hassinger, Jeanne Moutoussamy-Ashe,

and Beverly Buchanan, in popular publications like
Ms, Essence, and the Village Voice. Faythe Weaver—
like Goode Bryant a native of Columbus, Ohio, and a
young mother and graduate student when they met—
reviewed JAM and Studio Museum exhibitions in

the Amsterdam News, New York’s Black paper of record
throughout the twentieth century. However, it was
Coker who first opened the door to more substantive
writing on art in that outlet when she approached
senior cultural writer Mel Tapley with the idea in the
late 1970s. Initially an artist and a member of Where
We At, a collective of Black women creators, Coker
wrote articles for the Amsterdam News on a wide range
of topics: solo shows of Betye Saar’s work, historical
African and Haitian art, art collecting, and exhibitions
at Cinque Gallery, Tim Blackburn Gallery, and JAM,
where the work of Black artists could always be found.
By the 1980s Coker would increasingly appear in

the record as a curator. With Horace Brockington she
organized the Art Across the Park series, which
brought temporary work by Hassinger, O’Grady,
Billops, Lydia Okumura, Ana Mendieta, and others to
public parks throughout New York City, inspired by
JAM’s philosophy, strategies, and artists.'®

Evident in the writing by Sims, Wilson, Weaver,
and Coker is a captivation with the participatory
practices that became a signature of JAM. Coker’s take
on JAM’s 1978 summer show It’s a Crowd describes
the feel of works tumbling into the viewer while they
navigate the gallery.!7 Her review of The Process as Art:
In Situ, which took place later the same year, examines
a project that shifted over weeks as it attempted to
teveal the creative process, with the public welcome
to watch.'* Here we find JAM and Goode Bryant
continuing to explore the boundaries between per-
formance and visual art, and intuitively shaping the
laboratory model that would energize the gallery’s last
iteration, at 503 Broadway.

In this particular story of Black feminism, Goode
Bryant and this network of women—in physically
Pulling the gallery together, keeping it going, and
creating an intellectual space for it to thrive—pushed
against the parochialisms of the art world itself.!
More broadly, they sought to demolish the calcified
traditions and worldviews that had existed for cen-
turies, instantiated with colonialism and enslavement,
and formalized as the inequities in life and cultural
Possibility that followed. For this writer, the art world

“culture wars” of the late twentieth century did not
commence in 1989 with the targeting of queer imag-
ery, or in 1993 with outcries against a more diverse
biennial at the Whitney Museum—they were sewn into
the fabric of American life from the outset. However,
one earlier moment, in 1979, made vivid the contest of
power and visibility. And Goode Bryant, Pindell, Sims,
‘Wilson, and many others weighed in.

In Jeff Chang’s thorough retelling of the Nigger
Drawings controversy of 1979, it is Henry’s visit to
the infamous show at Artists Space, in SoHo, that set
protest and refusal in motion, alerting the community
around JAM to the artist Donald Newman’s titling of
his exhibition of charcoal pictures with the expletive,
as a way to indicate the works’ lowly origin.” Black
artists and their supporters pushed back with a rapid
letter-writing campaign to funding agencies, repudi-
ating white artists who were “smug & secure” in their
mobilizations of a “racial slur used under the guise of
aesthetic freedom”! and “tawdry sensationalist tactics”?
that challenged a Black humanity.

Monologic discourse was cracking under the
weight of more encompassing global theory and the
practices of artists and cultural workers worldwide
that took it up.” Art was not a white neighborhood,
and neither was New York’s downtown. A year later
Linda Goode Bryant would open JAM on Franklin
Street, a pioneer in Tribeca, bringing a capacious and
ever-evolving “theoretical context for the work of

black artists.”**

In memory of Just Above Midtown artist and stalwart
Sandra Payne. And in celebration of Linda Goode Bryant
and Thomas (T.) Jean Lax. With thanks for research
support to Columbia University students Dana Suzanne
Rodriguez and Fulian Sanchez Gonzdlez; and Lilia Rocio
Taboada, Curatorial Assistant, Department of Media and
Performance, The Museum of Modern Art.

19. In addition to JAM, a surprising
nexus of institutions seems to

hhave coalesced these women: the
“Metropolitan Museum of Art (where
‘Sims and Goode Bryant both

landed in Education and Community
Programs in 1972), the Rockefeller
Foundation (Goode Bryant and
Coker were both fellows), and The
‘Studio Museum in Harlem (where
Goode Bryant, Coker, and Henry
worked as educators, Pindell showed,
‘and Sims curated during this period).
Goode Bryant dedicated JAM’s
inaugural exhibition, Synthesisto
‘Sims (among others). Goode Bryant,
draft of foreword 10 Sythe, 1974.
Just Above Midtown Gallery Records,
Box 50, “Synthesis” Collection Linda
‘Goode Bryant, New York.

20. An artist who had been hanging
around the gallery since its inception,
Henry would volunteer, work, and
show at JAM downtown.

21. Howardena Pindell, quoted in Mel
‘Tapley, “Nigger Drawings’ Create
Storm of Protest,” Amuiterdam Nect,
April 21, 1979.

22. Lowery Sims, quoted in Mel
‘Tapley, “Nigger Drawings’ Create
Storm of Protest,” 40. Taple's article
incorporates quotes from various
letters, Related archival material can

Archives, and Rare Book Library,
Emory University. See also Jef
(Chang, “Color Theory: Race Trouble
We Be: Cultural History of Race in
Post-Gieil Rights America (New York:
‘St. Martin's Press, 2014).

23, Shaked, The Synthetic Proportion,
183. Shaked refers here to cultural

was also broadening. See Melissa

23-39, and Chang, “Color Theory.”

24, Sims, “Discrete Encounters;"in
Jones, Energy/Experimentarion, 54.
