orporation for Art and Television

‘As JAM moved out ofits second location, in Tribeca, the
heed to develop a model of financial sustainability that
id protect artists’ creative freedom became para-
‘mount for Linda Goode Bryant! This pressure, as well
“gstho desire to “push [artists] ideas and the tools they
“{ned/ led her to conceive the subsidiary Corporation
"for Art and Television, or CAT. A for-profit production |
faollty to be housed at JAM's third home, in SoHo, it
‘would allow JAM to operate without relying on the typ-
{eal financial models for both for-profit galleries and
nonprofit arts organizations. With CAT, JAM would be

car

The Total Future-Forward Concept in Production

CAT (kat), n.,v., catting, — ableto divorce the need for income from the production
Bear ae B 1 a complete, 200,000 square foot ‘and presentation of art, and, in doing so, to safeguardits /
Estevision, sdvertteing, wrote Peanction Of “feature fins, Infstion from the demands of an art market Increasingly

2°39 mils ton eed a yoTPOFate and institutional projects. 2 ‘ determined by an emerging class of Wall Street collec- A
Touted Facility cone rinies epoca tatty integrated, centraily- | totsaswellasfromtheprecartyinherentin fundraising /

studios, recordin. Ls f video production ‘and pursuing gran
igivece sateiiice seen pee studios, photography studios, CAT was imagined as a facility equipped with for- NONA HENDRYX
Goate; TeNearasl Checceee eaten nna bape editing and transfer tent production studios for video and audio, computer
constructions tear ees ere, oasting studios, client apartments, animation, and photography. With a multtiered finan-
Places seen storage, Production offices and support areas, 4a Gal structure and advanced technological capabilities,
Fe bun ete ity located in vanhattan, which makes New York city CAT would generate income that would in turn support
economical, convenient ch Has sore oo becomes a means for eels Coes eee ae
i rking across mediums, in the fine arts an
Producer using CAT. 7 the future of production, ° ‘e® S™=ze aeeietcatuie rhe programming ervisioned Included ReDesas Caneaptus! Cutines sites tte ot
: Feee eee ee ogre provontatlen, bromdoast, cecialta: mu cepbas Ws be saves cu eqiarez”
Hoe erect ot art think tanks to bring creatives and works wil respond to or use ae palate) levi:

orgenization taking it on at an institutional level. The
‘earliest archival document that mentions CAT, “JAM

See RNARD ___ (fyu'cher'£or'werd) , on : together to discuss the “Intersection of art, technology, sion mediay"* Wz

inct, effective. 2 tailor-mad Be upeauey and popular culture"; a publication “collaboratively pro

clients that starts "before’ made. 3a relationship with Guced by artists and writers"; and an artists’ laboratory, pete Cosey and Vernon etd
ee he fact, 52 research Githpartctpentebenefiting rom technical supportand 2
Gollahorative resulte of fecr ne eovades Clients with the 4 stipend. The plan for the first Laboratory Program. genes

the creative boundaries of tectesoeny tetists working to push for the 1984-85 season, which was partaly realized,

desimi, development and cccct aor” S client in-put in the FS erat clve trun ive Gane) Ge
ee ee eae Blondell Cummings, Senga Nengudi, Maren Hassinger, aboraiery reese

club, ive" environment, 8 private health Ralph Lemon, and David Hammons. The vision for CAT

9 private x
estaurant and lounge, 10 Superior. tar iinbued with JAM’s ethos of experimentation and tere. Yoshiko Chuma, Nona Hendryx,
Collaboration--the belief that those result from creative °**% Fred Holland, Oliver Lake
practitioners coming together around a shared need for Several Stories Tall
studio space, materials, and curatorial support. Cotlaboration Project
Though stacks of meticulous planning documents
for programming, budgets, and equipment were pro-
lis lideboeaieraromerryreiei ony rs Qinre Lit aes Tani
ing and support from the local government. fithad, the Li lad ets Z
‘emphasis on emerging technologies would have taken
JAM in a new direction, one In step with the moment:
es eruiiwent had ecomewldelyavaliableudecada feeit-) Chrtetlan MVehei)
snd by 1985 the VCR was in fifty percent of Laboratory Project

hhomes in the United States.* Indeed, 1984, the yoar the
CAT Laboratory Program started, saw both Newsweek
Shd time declering he arival of ‘the video revelution” — 1985
on their covers. Digital cameras and computers were
eginning to appear on the market at prices that were nz, Chris Kraus
more affordable for individuals, expanding possibil- "Laboratory Project
ities for artists working in media and technology and —
for television as a venue for artistic expression. While yq2. Bradley Wester
this shift is typically discussed in terms of individual 42” Laboratory Project
artistic production, CAT was an example of an arts eae

