growing class distinctions among Black Americans at
the time, which were conditioned by social institutions
such as “Washington.” On the one hand, this work per-
petuates the conception of Black people as laborers for
the wealthy and features minstrel tropes (both the shoe
shiner and his customer have large white lips). On the
other, it portrays a Black man as someone who travels to
the nation’s capital and can afford certain luxuries.

At JAM, Hayden’s work was shown for the purposes
of “re-evaluation,” as Lowery Stokes Sims explained in
her essay for the brochure for the 1977 exhibition. Sims
argued that Hayden stood apart from his contemporar-
ies who responded to “the problem of self-imagery . . .
in the face of pejorative depictions of them by white
America” with “a romantic and largely synthetic view
of the (African) past.”** For the JAM crowd, Hayden’‘s
“minstrel” exaggerations were not mocking or demean-
ing, but instead highlighted and celebrated qualities
of Blackness that he saw his peers omitting;?” Hayden
eschewed romance in favor of critique, productive
nuances, and experimentation. —mr

Mar 8~
Mar 26

Senga Nengudi
R.S.V.P.

Senga Nengudi’s R.S.V.P. sculptures (plate 21) are made
of nylon stockings filled with sand and stretched wall
to wall and floor to ceiling. In an artist’s statement that
accompanied this exhibition, the series’ New York debut,
Nengudi contextualized its inception: “After giving birth
to my own son, | thought of black wet nurses suckling
child after child—their own as well as others—until their
breasts rested on their knees, their energies drained."”°

Elastic and sensual, the sculptures abstract bodily forms,
their pendulous appendages resembling both testi-
cles and breasts. In press images, Nengudi is pictured
manipulating the sagging forms, thereby insisting on the
responsiveness beckoned by the series’ title. Some visi-
tors took her invitation literally by replying on a legal pad
provided by the gallery, with one writing, “Beautiful that
you've created how we all begin + end organically.” The
twelve works featured were priced between one hundred
and one thousand dollars, and two of them sold*_ —TJL

Mar 2e- David Hammons
4er28 Recent Hair Sculpture
Apr 27- Valerie Maynard
May28 Emerging Spirits: Prints/Sculpture
Seps- The Concept as Art
Oct6 David Hammons, Noah Jemison, Senga
Nengudi, Randy Williams
oct it- Howardena Pindell
Nov 5

Recent Works with Paper and
Video Drawings |

Howardena Pindell has traced the significance of cir-
cles—a constant motif in her work—to a particular child-
hood memory: finding a red circle on the bottom of her
and her father’s mugs at a root beer stand in Kentucky.
The shape designated the mugs that people of color
were to use, and therefore stuck with her as a symbol
of racial segregation. Pindell’s obsession with the circle
came from a desire to give it anew meaning.

In 1977, circles—thousands of them—appeared
across the thirteen abstract paintings and drawings in
Pindell’s solo exhibition at JAM, Recent Works with Paper
and Video Drawings. The show, which also featured
thirteen of the artist's “video drawings” (photographs
of drawings onacetate laid on top ofa television screen),
evinced her fascination with not only circles but lines,
grids, arrows, and numbers, all of which she admired
for their form as well as their ability to calculate value or
to identify.** At the time of the show, Pindell was work-
ing as a curator at MoMA, where, as one of few Black
staff members, she developed an acute awareness of
the ways in which institutions uphold racism and sex-
ism2* Her approach to art making was meditative and
methodical, and offered a therapeutic way to process
the events of her day-to-day life. In her free time she
turned to her “bags of holes,”** the chads she had
punched out of painted manila folders and cardstock.
In some works, she methodically inscribed numbers on
individual circles and carefully adhered them in a grid-
like pattern. To make the works included in this show,
Pindell used spray adhesive and paint to build up the
surface of paper with layers of confetti-like chads and
colorful glitter, in a process that combined automatism
and ritual. The resulting works are lyrical, meditative,
and vibrant, unconfined by their flat supports and their
four edges, as well as by the categories of geometry,
abstraction, craft, and fine art. —yK

BeLow Invitation (recto:
verso) to Senga Nengudi*
exhibition R.S.V.P., 193

28. Lowery Stokes Sims, “Palm)
Hayden: A Re-Evaluation,” in 7
Many Facets of Palmer Hayden, ¢
brochure (New York: Just Above
‘Midtown, 1977), n.p.

29, Linda Goode Bryant, conve:
with the author, July 2021.

30, Senga Nengudi, artist's state
quoted in John Perreault, “Seng
‘Nengudi—Just Above Midtown
Gallery,” SoHo Nec, March 24-
1977.

31. Handwritten comments fron
ad. [197]
Records, Box 57, “Senga Nengu

32. Financial statement and
for R.S.V-P., both n.d. (1977].}
Records, Box 57, “Senga Nengu
33. Howardena Pindell, artist’
ment, in Higis Timer, Hard Times
York Painting 1967-1975, exh. ca
Katy Siegel (New York: Indepen
Curators International, 2006), 1
34. Pindell, artists statement, in
Drassing Now: 10 Artists, exh. cat
ed. Corinne Robins (New Yorks
‘Center for Visual Artists, 1976),
35. Pindell, “Accounting for On
in Howardena Pindelt: Rope'Fire!
exh. cat, ed. Adeze Wilford (Net
‘The Shed, 2021), 99.

36. Pindell, “Interview with

ace
Books, 2018), 207.
