residency program. Maynard, whose work explores
social injustice and the legacy of the civil rights move-
ment, said of herself at the time, “I am a medium.
Consciously seeking the essence of everything in my
experience.”** This sentiment is conveyed in her lino-
cut The Artist Trying to Get It All Down (c. 1970; plate
18), in which a figure is hunched over a piece of paper,
surrounded by a phantasmagoria of spectral figures in
varying states of torsion, vibrating with energy.

The Black women featured in In Recognition had
dedicated their lives to living within their respective
practices, seeing their studios as sites of community
and creative pedagogy, their experiences as embod-
ied, somatic material to be centered and applied. This
was exemplified by Suzanne Jackson's Gallery 32, a self-
funded arts space in Los Angeles that operated from
1968 to 1970. A predecessor to Just Above Midtown,
it was inspired by the vision of artist Charles White—
with whom Jackson studied at Otis Art Institute (now
Otis College of Art and Design)—who believed that art
could catalyze activism and social progress.” Jackson's
drawing Talk (1976; plate 17), included in the JAM exhi-
bition, can be interpreted as a visualization of the type
‘of exchange she fostered; its two abstracted figures
appear face to face, their interior and exterior selves
fluid, their bodies merging with each other and the
landscape. —LR

&

:

2 Back From Wechington

1977

Noah Jemison

Jan 4
van 2s- David Lampson

Feb 42 Recent Photographs
Feb is- Palmer Hayden

Nar 6

The Many Facets of Palmer Hayden

As the only nonliving artist on JAM’s roster, Palmer
Hayden was an outlier, yet his work fit squarely with
the gallery's interest in exploring the complexities of
Black representation. Though Hayden's paintings were
controversial throughout his career, which began in
the mid-1920s, for what some critics perceived as his
caricature of his Black subjects, his approach to ste-
reotypes was not straightforward. His watercolor Just
Back from Washington (1938; see below), which was
included in The Many Facets of Palmer Hayden, is a case
in point. It pictures a dapper Black man—presumably
just back from Washington, DC, standing proud with a
smile on his face and a cigar in his mouth—having his
shoes shined by another Black man. The juxtaposition
of these two figures shows Hayden’s awareness of the

BELOW Brochure for the
‘exhibition The Many Facets
of Palmor Hayden, 1977

26. "Valerie Maynand Biography.”
nid. JAM Records, Box 57, "Valens
Maynard."

27. Naima J. Keith, “Sueanne Jaden”
artist biography, in New Dig Thal
Art and Black Los Angeles 1940-1806,
exh, cat., ed. Kellie Jones (Loy Angie
‘Hammer Museum; New Yorks
‘DelMonico Books, 2011), 260:

Gusting Up to Thirty
