Ina well-known origin story, the US alternative-space
movement begins in the 1960s, particularly in New
York, driven by the desire to center unconventional
means of distribution, production, and accessibility,
and to develop exhibition venues beyond traditional
commercial gallery frameworks. It is characterized by
“organizational innovation, creative experimentation,
and attempts to remedy systemic deficiencies,”! in
establishments that value the communitarian, collective,
and anti-elitist. Such spaces eschew standard bureau-
cratic form, privileging the flexible and adventurous
and the needs and agency of local artists. They offer
a critique of both commercialism and aesthetics. One
1960s innovator, Jacki Apple, also describes the art itself
as different, “process-oriented [and] post-Minimal”;
emerging in a conceptual environment that did not
value the market, “the work was temporal, ephemeral,
transitory, performative, and investigatory: process
took precedence over product.”?

The growth of alternative spaces allowed artists of
color and women artists to make greater inroads into
the artworld. One legacy of 1960s and ’70s activism,
these spaces instantiated the model of the artist as citi-
zen intent on changing the world, in a subtle transition
from known forms of political activism to a politics
of representation.? However, if cultural diversity was
valued in the American art universe, it was, more often
than not, seen as part of community connection and
development in ethnic neighborhoods, in Harlem,
Queens, the Bronx, Brooklyn’s Bedford-Stuyvesant,
and Manhattan’s Chinatown and Latinx East Village.
The venues and organizations located in these parts
of the city included The Studio Museum in Harlem,
Weusi-Nyumba Ya Sanaa, El Museo del Barrio,
Fashion Moda, Longwood Arts Center, Jamaica Art
Center, Basement Workshop, and Kenkeleba House.
Even institutions based in the lower Manhattan
cultural district (Hatch-Billops Collection, American
Indian Community House Gallery, Acts of Art, and
Cayman Gallery) were considered more culturally
specific than alternative and often receive cursory
attention in written histories, or do not appear at all.
Ignored by or barred from the art world generally,
folks of color played out their desires for an exhibition-
ary complex, their own will to representation, in these
autochthonous art spaces, which followed from the
more informal churches, cultural centers, and business
offices that had supported and fueled their dreams
earlier in the century.

Linda Goode Bryant figures prominently in this
broader art historical narrative. Her Just Above
Midtown Gallery (affectionately known as JAM) first
took root in New York’s oldest blue-chip art neigh-
borhood, on Fifty-Seventh Street (1974-79), and
later in the emerging downtown districts of Tribeca

(1980-84) and SoHo (1984-86). As Rujeko Hockley
and Catherine Morris have argued, JAM played a
crucial role in 1970s Black avant-garde and experi-
mental arts, supporting a bevy of Black creators, not
only visual artists but musicians and writers. Moving
between for-profit and nonprofit strategies, JAM
embraced a wide array of organizational methods,
professionalized artists and collectors, and, for all
intents and purposes, invented the market for the work
it would show.*

From its inception, JAM vexed established modes
of commerce and representation alike. In the mid-
1970s most of the longstanding New York art world
still did not know what to do with Black artists, outside
of the few stars; Jacob Lawrence, Romare Bearden,
and the meteoric Bob Thompson. It was assumed that
Black artists were amateurs, outliers, or hobbyists.
While some neighboring gallerists—Terry Dintenfass
(who showed Lawrence), Betty Parsons, and Sidney
and Carroll Janis—were supportive, the majority of
Fifty-Seventh Street rejected the investigatory methods
of JAM’s director and artists as much as their race. In
the midst of a recession, Goode Bryant had fearlessly
talked her way into renting the space—724 square feet
on the fifth floor—from owner Bill Judson, and she
and supporters rehabbed the place, putting in parquet
floors. Their excitement notwithstanding, JAM’s first
home, located in the back of the building and lack-
ing windows, mirrored the cramped spaces that had
historically been available to Black artists in the United
States and abroad: the children’s galleries, the foyers
and hallways, the project rooms, and the smallest gal-
leries in any museum.>

Some of the earliest documents in the JAM archives
reveal Goode Bryant’s prescience and point to the
unwavering vision that would guide her over the twelve
years she spent crafting a gallery with national and in-
ternational reach, twinned commercial and educational
portfolios, and programming that supported a creative
community and championed multimedia, installation,
and performative practices.

JAM’s first show, Synthesis (fig. 1) (see Chronology,
p. 29), like the gallery itself (see opposite page), came
with a definition: “a combination of parts or elements
into a complex whole.”* The exhibition made space
for a larger, global Black art world.” The West Coast

delegation included Dan Concholar, David Hammons,

and RoHo; Alonzo Davis and Suzanne Jackson, who
were also gallerists; and Los Angeles native Camille
Billops, who had already (with her husband, James

V. Hatch) established, in New York’s SoHo, the
Hatch-Billops archival and oral history project, which

‘opposite Announcesent for
the opening of Just Above
Midtown, 1974

1, Mary Anne Staniszewaki,“On

Histories)” in Abernatce Hinoris:
New York Art Spaces, 1960 to 2010,
ced, Laura Rosati and Mary Anne
‘Staniszewski (New York: Exit Art;
(Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2012), 11.
2. Jacki Apple, “Alternatives Recon-
sidered,” in Rosati and Staniszewski,
Alternative Hisaries, 18.

3. Julie Ault, “For the Record," in
Alternative Art New York, 1965-1985,
ed, Julie Ault (New York: The Drawing,

‘ule Alma At New, 185,
4. Catherine Morris and Rujeko

@Brooktyn, NY: Brooklyn Museum,
2017), 22.

5. See Bridget R. Cooks, Echibiing
Blackness: African Americans and the
American Art Museum (Boston: Univers
sity of Massachusetts Press, 2011). Ia
1985, artist Lubaina Himid organized
‘an exhibition of work by eleven Black
women creators at London's Institute
of Contemporary Arts. Its tithe, The
Thin Black Line, referred to the hallway
spllery in which itwas installed.

(6-This definition of “synthesis” appears
Insdrerog or thesone A caso
was planned, with texts by critic
Lawrence Alloway and John Tendayi E.
Maponders, of the Drum Arts Centre
in London. At this writing, only Goode
Bryant's foreword and an essay by her
professor and mentor Dr. Richard A.
‘Long, of Spelman College, remain. Just

7. For instance, later on Goode Bryant
‘would include diasporic perspectives
through the work of Jamaicans Mallica
‘Kae Rerockie Gee Conesiogh B30)
and David Boxer and Puerto

fern horsbes rane
