subsequently receive recognition, it also exhibited
recent work by a generation of artists who had begun
showing a decade earlier. The emergence of these
artists in the 1960s had occurred against the backdrop
of a debate about the utility of a single vision for black
art, but JAM practiced an idea of black art unbound
from individual style or mandate, without rejecting its
predecessors,

Perhaps most underrecognized in the scholarship
on JAM to date is the effect of the gallery’s incubation
of the first generation of black conceptualists, includ-
ing David Hammons, Senga Nengudi, and Randy
‘Williams."* In their work, art making was often para-
doxically authorial and unattributable, unmistakably
recognizable as belonging to all. Likewise, direct expe-
rience and pure idea were a shared font for rendering
and then transforming social reality. The interest in
black signifiers like chicken bones or Thunderbird bot-
tles skewered the two-sided debate between represen-
tation and abstraction—and unintentionally ushered
in the increasing presence of non-black artists. This
openness began with Statements Known and Statements
New (1976) (see Chronology, p. 36), which featured
neo-Dadaists Robert Rauschenberg and Jasper Johns
and other white artists alongside artists of color
under the influence of Marcel Duchamp, including
Hammons and Jorge Luis Rodriguez. When the gallery
moved to Franklin Street, Asian, Native American,
Latinx, and white women artists increasingly found
cover at JAM.

In retrospect, we can see how JAM’s inclusion
of non-black artists offered a model of desegregation
in contradistinction to integration. In 1985, James
Baldwin read the latter for filth, writing, “I’m not sure
I want to be integrated into a burning house. Americans
decided that desegregation meant integration, and,
with this one word, smashed every black institution
in this country.” A generation after the civil rights
movement, Baldwin joined a chorus of black feminist
thinkers who likewise demonstrated integration’s toll
on black kinship structures through the incorporation
of education, housing, and childcare into white cul-
tural norms, rather than the dismantling of inequitable
value systems or resourcing their black counterparts.!¢
As the recently deceased bell hooks wrote, “That shift
from beloved, all-black schools to white schools...
taught me the difference between education as the
practice of freedom and education that merely strives
to reinforce domination.”"”

In the throes of integration, JAM stayed true to
a version of desegregation buoyed by its cooperative
approach. This was evidenced in public programs
geared to families and children, including the Saturday
Mom’s Group and the Sunshine Circle Preschool
(see Chronology, p. 29), as well as its programmatic
emphasis on collaboration. As early as 1976, Goode
Bryant imagined the gallery's Fifty-Seventh Street

building as a “co-operative building concept” in
which some thirty-six galleries would coordinate joint
advertising through a map of the block and monthly
newsletters.'* Her idea for a “vertical museum”'® did
not materialize, but that did not stop Goode Bryant
from attempting other forms of collaboration when
the gallery moved to Tribeca. The performance Blind
Dates (1982) (see Chronology, p. 104), for example,
resulted from three artists working in different disci-
plines coming together, And JAM’s second exhibition
downtown, Dialogues (1980) (see Chronology, p. 89),
was organized in partnership with its new alterna-
tive-art-space neighbors in response to the increase
in exhibitions organized around identarian affinity.
Through this program, JAM welcomed in both artists
and their communities, including those associated
with Interart, Franklin Furnace, the American Indian
Community House, and Basement Workshop. At a
time when feminist artists and artists of color worked
as both presenters and organizers, JAM joined its peers
in gambling on feminist and multicultural collectivity
as a value for a desegregated artworld.

Creative entanglements at JAM were so intense
that it is sometimes hard to distinguish one maker
from another. To give just one example, that authorial
blur occurred when Noah Jemison and David Hammons
dressed up Marquita Pool-Eckert, who was positioned
inside Jorge Luis Rodriguez’s Circulo con cuatro esquinas
(Circle with Four Corners) (1976), installed in his JAM
exhibition Circulos, and lit a candle in front of her
(fig. 2).?°This kind of enmeshment and interpersonal
weave can also happen when you play music together,
or turn off the lights.

indebt/dn'det/vt

to place (as oneself) under an obligation
(as of returning something borrowed)**

A 1975 document titled “Outstanding Operating
Accounts” in a box of JAM’s financial records reads:

Accounts needing immediate attention:

Telephone 197.88
Rent 816.26
Security 200.00

A summary of past due, delinquent, and final notices,
the balance sheet also includes a series of relatively
small amounts: $12.96 for an ad in the New York Times,
$9.10 for postage. The individual notices that Goode
Bryant kept in the same box tell a more affecting nar-
rative. One invoice from a photocopier who made in-
vitations for the gallery reads, “We did this job for you
in good faith. Don’t you think we deserve the same

14. For more on the emergence of
conceptual art, see Valerie
Cassel Oliver, Double Coniciouen:
Black Conceptual Art since 1970, ex.
cat, (Houston: Contemporary Ars
‘Museum Houston, 2005) and Nion
Beckwith, Thirgy Secondi Off an Ich,
exh, eat. (New York: The Studio
‘Museum in Harlem, 2009).

15. James Baldwin, The Boidence of
Things Not Seen (New York: Henry
Holt, 1985), 22-23,

16, See Patricia Hill Collin, “Black
Women and Motherhood," in
Black Feminist Thought: Knocledg,
Consciousness, andthe Pit of
Empowerment (New York: Routledge,
2000): 187-215.

17, bell hooks, Teaching to Thane
Education as the Practice of Freedom
(New York: Routledge, 1994), 4,

18. Goode Bryant, leter to Howard
Klein, Director, Arts Program at
Rockefeller Foundation, October

20, 1976, Rockefeller Foundation
records, Record Group 1.9 (Project),
Series 200R (United States—Arts and
Humanities), Box R2060, “Just Above
Midtown)" 1976,

19. Goode Bryant, letter to Klein.
Calling her model a “vertical muse
uum," Goode Bryant proposed that

th floor house a gallery speci
different period or style, so that
Fs could travel through historial
time and according to personal taste
using only the elevator.

20. With an imperative to document,
‘Goode Bryant and Randy Wiliams
steadily recorded art making in real
time using a Sony Portapak he
borrowed from the Met, taping
Howardena Pindell punch hundreds
‘of holes to prepare her works on papet
as she talks about racism in baseball
and the art world, and Banerjee take
4 torch to his canvas with Hammons
by his side.

21. This definition, as well as the ones
for “spirit” and “mother” that appear
as section titles later in this essay, are
taken from Merriam-Webster online,

