being urged by the burgeoning vitality of alternative
spaces and the rapid increase in affinity shows.”” One of
these questions was “Are the emerging contemporary
artists outside the art establishment exploring common
issues?”* This line of inquiry brought to JAM projects
that examined positions beyond the Black diaspora in
the United States, creating space for an intersectional
discourse on histories of struggle and the potential for
solidarity. One night, for example, Venezuelan artist
Rolando Pefia, presented by Cayman Gallery, punctured
the bottoms of gold-painted barrels suspended from the
ceiling as part of his performance Crude Oil, letting the
black substance of the same name ooze onto the gallery
floor. Another evening, Native American performers
andactors Jane Lind and Maria Antoinette Rodgers, pre-
sented by American Indian Community House Gallery,
danced to live drumming in matching contemporary
powwow regalia.

This collective exercise underscored the possibil-
ities of shaping and redefining community within the
art world, as well the challenges, for even its “alterna-
tive" sector needed reminding that “white avant-garde,
post-modern art isn't the only underexposed, unrecog-
nized art,” as the music critic David Jackson argued in
an unpublished essay written for the show.’ Despite the
mixed reviews it received, Dialogues achieved its goal:
itbroke through the fabricated silos of the arts, bringing
together artists, audiences, and institutions that were
typically isolated from one another. —LR

“We find that the survival of our people
is based on our use of modern forms of
communication. The insurgent messages
within these forms must serve as our
evocative measures.”

—Edgar Heap of Birds, c. 19831°

For the visual-art component of Dialogues, the American
Indian Community House Gallery showed the work
of Edgar Heap of Birds. The artist, who belongs to the
Cheyenne and Arapaho nations, created Understanding
the Uniqueness of an Ethnic Entity (1980; plate 49),
which consisted of painted die-cut letters adhered
directly to the wall in two columns: Cheyenne words for
animals were paired with intentional mistranslations in
English. Heap of Birds selected the latter from exhibition
didactics a museum had recently forced him to write to
explain his shift from recognizably “ethnic” to more polit-
ically oriented work." What initially resembled a bilingual
dictionary was actually a record of irreconcilable differ-
ence, an insurgent message about the position of the
Indigenous artist who had to perform their ethnicity for
an audience that had no knowledge of their culture.

Uniquely aware of the power of institutions, Heap of
Birds envisioned a one-person exhibition of his own work,
titled Sharp Rocks, that would travel from one alterna-
tive art space to another, including Just Above Midtown,
in 1984. In his proposal, he framed his paintings, instal-
lations, and videos as modern equivalents to the Native
American arrow point, a traditional tool for self-defense
and preservation.” With Sharp Rocks, which was eventu-
ally realized (though not at JAM), Heap of Birds applied his
Strategic use of language to exhibition making, extend-
ing his means of achieving self-authorship.?, —EB

9. David Jackson, pier

Hialogues Catalog.” This text:
intended for an exhibition cs
that was ultimately not realized.

Edgar Heap of Birds, S

10,
exhi

11, Heap of Binds, email to

Jean Lax, April 21, 2022,

12, Heap of Birds, Sharp,

tion proposal.

13. Versions of this exhibition were
held from 1985 to 1987, atthe

the Art Culture and Resource
Toronto.

