Decision by Arms? p 133

Sonia Balassanian, Olivia Beens, James A.
Brown, Rolando Brisefio, Joel Carreiro,
Nancy Clark, Steve Clark, Martin Cohen,
Ed Epping, Lauren Ewing, John Fekner, E\
Goetz, G. Gerry Griffin, Freya Hansell,
Laurel Hecht, Donna Henes, Brigid
Kennedy, Tom Klem, Margia Kramer, Stephen
Lapthisophon, Joe Lewis, Dona Ann McAdams,
Paulette Nenner, Saul Ostrow, Stephen J.
Parlato, Steven Pollack, Jet-te Ranning,
‘alvin Reid, Geno Rodriguez, Martha
Rosler, Erika Rothenberg, Jerry Saltz,
Kenneth Shorr, James Siena, Peter Slatin,
Bob Smith, Joel Sokolov, Francesc Torres,
Gene Thompson, Anton van Dalen, Randy
Williams, Rhonda Zwillinger

Performances: Dinosaur Project, Fall Out
Fashion (If You Can Wear It to the Holocaust
You Can Wear It Anywear): Performance on
Armed Forces Day; Ilona Granet, Tiny Terror

Organized by Kathleen Goncharov

May 6
May 29

“The question mark in the title implies that there is no
longer the possibility of a decision by arms,” explained
the press release for this exhibition.*° It went on to
quote Jonathan Schell’s influential three-part article
"The Fate of the Earth,” published earlier in 1982 in
the New Yorker: “The decision by arms can occur only
when the strength of one side or the other is exhausted,
or when its exhaustion is approached. But in a nuclear
war no one's strength fails until both sides have been
annihilated.” Some participating artists directly
addressed the nuclear question. Margia Kramer, for
example, showed Still Life with Rad Gloves (198:
opposite page), a box containing crushed eyeglasses,
a broken watch, and a melted glass Coca-Cola bot-
tle, all accessible only with the attached radiation-
attenuating gloves. Like a time capsule found after a
catastrophe, the work imagines a scenario in which
the artifacts of everyday life have been rendered toxic.
Other artists referenced the ongoing specter of US
imperialism, among them Martha Rosler, whose con-
tribution, a large drawing titled Pie in the Sky and We
Die (1981-82), shows a wraithlike figure in a cowboy hat
watching a bomb descend ona landmass labeled “Latin
America, USSR, Europe, You + Me.” Still others evoked
the terror of modern warfare more generally, as Brigid
Kennedy did in Naked Raid (1981), a trio of eerily feature-
less aerial bombers made of wire mesh and paper and
suspended from the ceiling.

Not all of the works offered such sobering visions.
Dinosaur Project—a collective of twenty artists from
Ithaca, New York—presented Fall Out Fashion, a perfor-
mance showcasing artist-designed clothing for a post-
apocalyptic world, held on Armed Forces Day to empha-
size the connection between militarism and looming
disaster. The garments included a wedding dress that
transformed into a funeral frock, and a dress covered
in small plastic bags for the “survival of the fattest.’”?
Village Voice dance critic Sally Banes wrote that it was “a
relief... to see a group of artists attack the upper crust
of American politics and the clothing industry by sub-
verting the fashion-show format with intelligent wit and
a funky style refreshingly devoid of pretensions.” —BE

May 44

Jun 5

Jun 5~
Jul 3

Lert Flyer for the reception
introducing Black Currant,
1982. Designed by Janet
Olivia Henry

40. Press release for Deciriom by Armi?,
ad. [1982]. JAM Records, Box 64,
wae

41. Jonathan Schell, “The Fate of the
Earth,” New Yorker, February 1, 8,
and 15, 1982. The concept “decision
‘by arms” originated with Carl von
‘Clausewitz (1780-1831), a Prussian
‘general and military theorist.

42. Sally Banes, “The Politics of
Performance and the Performance of
Politics,” Village Vice, June 22, 1982.
JAM Records, Box 50, “No Fund
NYSCA Requests 1987."
43. Banes, “The Politics of

ce"
44. Daniel Dawson, “Some Thoughts
on Art and Occupation," in What 1
De for Ar, exh. cat. (New York: Just
Above Midtown, 1982), 22.

IEcEPToN INTROBUENG BLACK CURRANT

aagve woromecomTonre®
SPUusRrncr annata eauearon

utseur, way n=ecoT0 829A

Reception: Introducing
Black Currant

“Just Above Midtown/Downtown
quarterly artists publication”

JAM Celebrates
Party at 405 East Thirteenth Street

What I Do for Art pp 130, 134
Kenneth Aptekar, Jill Baroff, Phil Berkman,
Sydney Blum, Daniel Dawson, Reverend Howard
Michael Hoskins,

Finster, Barry Holde
Walter Jackson, Kalm:
Miller, Toby Old,
‘And Gonzalez Rive!
Segall, Cynthia Suertedt, Angela Veneto
Performances: Music by William Basinski;
Timothy Siciliano and Payton Wilkinson,
City Streets: A La Cart (A Cartoon Drama);
the Waitresses (Madeleine Keller and Janet
Ziff), The Fine Art of Waitressing, “A
Presentation Including Slides, a Filmed
Demonstration, Intervie
show of specially designed Aprons”
Organized by Kathleen Goncharov

“our concepts of art and society, our
chosen definitions of reality, can enable
us to view our lives—including our job
and our art—as our major art form. Viewed
as such, our lives can become the ultimate
performance piece. —Daniel Dawson‘

