Debt is a perverse name for a system that could
also be described through the language of mutual aid
or love. I hold on to it here to more accurately delin-
eate the historical financial conditions and models
that—like other circumscribed protocols (real estate
speculation, the commercial gallery model, a promotion
service involving multiple outlets across the world) —
Goode Bryant reformatted, Just as some of the artists
who showed at JAM reworked lint, hair, or nylon in
their artworks, Goode Bryant marshaled debt toward a
different end than the one set out by her creditors.

What were the other options available to JAM? The
copublishers of this book negotiated their own real estate
deals during this same period. The Studio Museum in
Harlem (founded in 1968) was gifted a building in 1979
by the New York Bank for Savings, and in 1985 it leased
the adjacent vacant lot from the City of New York;
the museum is currently constructing its new home on
this site.** In the mid-1970s, MoMA representatives
proposed and then lobbied New York’s State legislature
to create the Trust for Cultural Resources. This public-
benefit corporation, still in existence, blueprinted an
intricate financial model for cultural institutions in New
York City, clearing the way for MoMA to sell the air
rights above its Fifty-Third Street building and subse-
quently to develop a residential tower. The Trust enabled
some of the proceeds of this new tower to go to MoMA,
helping to capitalize its expansion. The Trust also facil-
itated the exception of taxes on bonds issued to the
Museum, a method of debt retirement. When MoMA
announced these ambitions, New York City’s mayor,
Abraham Beame—who himself had just barely avoided
defaulting on the city’s debts—celebrated the private-
public partnership as a “self-help project” that was
“good news for all New Yorkers.”**

In contrasting these differences in resource allo-
cation, I am not suggesting that there is a zero-sum
relationship between MoMA’s guaranteed forgiveness
and JAM’s unpaid debts. Rather, I juxtapose them
to better understand their historical entanglements,
which function as an index of the interconnectedness
of financial and cultural value in the United States,
particularly when it comes to the things black people
make and the places we stay. Could we, following phi-
losopher and artist Denise Ferreira da Silva, describe
JAM’s debt as unpayable—an obligation that is not the
debtor’s to pay?>”

In her interview with Thelma Golden in this book,
Goode Bryant asks, “Can JAM be JAM at MoMA?”*
‘Why do the two institutions at once refuse and need
one another? That this show is happening at MoMA
is an acknowledgment that JAM, both then and now,
required a Midtown to be just above: a norm to define
itself against, a set of resources made available by
desegregation to siphon off toward more equitable
ends. The debt of our moment to JAM is unpayable
because there is no way to fully acknowledge the

history the gallery made possible, nor the models
for artistic support it continues to actualize through
ongoing relationships. This exhibition may function as
an expanded credit, a dedication, and a resource guide.
But even an attempt at a reference list—of works made
by artists supported by the gallery that are now in
MoMaA’s collection, for example—would fail to grasp
the unbridled sense of opportunity JAM offered black
artists to try some shit out, and, importantly, to fail.
The logic of speculation can’t grasp what happens in a
space for blackness unconcerned with canon formation
or the constant policing of the borders of worthiness.
‘What kind of future was made possible when JAM.
did not capitalize in the ways other cultural institu-
tions did? Just as the Studio Museum and MoMA.
exist today in forms built upon their earlier selves,
might we imagine JAM’s existence in the present as
commensurate with the resources and accompanying
value systems at its disposal? This is not simply an
assessment of the racial wealth gap, but an observa-
tion of an aesthetic still at work. JAM’s itinerant and
shifting shape is at once a function of the economics
that prompted its landlords to evict it from every space
it occupied and an expression of the kind of prosperity
it alchemized from that reality.

spirit/spir-ot/vt
1. to infuse with spirit, especially:
animate
2. to carry off usually secretly or
mysteriously

The logic of debt is not confined to finance; it is meta-
physical too. Like unpaid rent, religion is another zone
of life where descriptions of mutual obligation take
extended license. Take, for example, the Mahasanghika
Vinaya, a fifth-century Chinese translation of the ca-
nonical Buddhist text, which diagrams the relationship
of the individual to the collective through the language
of debt:

When one person, thanks to another person, takes
refuge in the Sangha [assembly], it is not easy for
the former to repay the latter. Even if she were to
serve that person for her entire life . . . even then,
it would not be easy to repay him.*

At JAM, like many sites of artistic worship, devotion
undergirded the infrastructural belief system, pro-
viding sacrament “to climb back up into air as if to
burst the throat.”*°

In Cheryl Banks-Smith, Lawrence D. “Butch”
Morris, and Senga Nengudi’s collaborative perfor-
mance Air Propo (1981; p. 66 and plates 55-57) (see
Chronology, p. 91), Nengudi repeatedly inhaled before

35. “The Studio Museum in Har
Fact Sheet,” The Studio Museurt
Harlem website, AC Hudgins, wt
father, Alvin Hudgins, had previo
co-owned the building, worked tt
when it was a furniture and liquo
store. AC Hudgins, email to the
author, April 27, 2022.

36. My account of the Trust for
‘Cultural Resources is based on th
following sources: David Rockefe!
interview by Sharon Zane, The
Museum of Modern Art Oral His
Program, January 17, 1991; Suzat
Stephens, “MoMA’s Castle in the
Air," Arsforum 14, no. 10 (Summe
1976): 28-31; Howard Blum,
“Museums Turning to Air Rights
Revenues,” New York Times, Januat
7, 1983; “Museum of Modern Art
Announces Expansion Program,”
‘MoMA press release, February 12
1976.

37. Denise Ferreira da Silva,
“Unpayable Debt: Reading Scene:
of Value against the Arrow of
Time," in The Documenta 14 Read
ed, Quinn Latimer and Adam
‘Szymezyk (London: Prestel, 2017)
81-112. Da Silva writes about Dar
in Octavia E. Butler's Kindred, whe
is sent back in time to keep her
‘owner-ancestor alive to preserve hi
own existence.

38. Goode Bryant, “Can JAM Be
JAM at MoMA? A Conversation.

‘between Linda Goode Bryant and
‘Thelma Golden,” in this volume, 2

39. Quoted in Reiko Ohnuma, Tie
‘That Bind: Maternal Imagery and

Discourse in Indian Buddhism (Oxfo
and New York: Oxford University

Press), 101. Thank you to Gil Anid
for this reference and for his sustai
thinking on the topic of motherhox

40. Tracy K. Smith, “Sacrament,” j
Life on Mars (Minneapolis: Graywe
Press, 2011), 68.
