pet 28 © Jean-Paul Curtay

How Do You Feel About...:

A Non-Verbal Sound Performance
oct 22- Theo Altenberg
et s0 Performance Art from Austria
jov2- Blondell Cummings, Senga
Nov 20

Nengudi, Yasunao Tone
Three Week Live Collaboration

Resulting performance: Blind Dates, White
Dog Performance Studio, 54 White Street

Over three weeks, the public could watch composer
Yasunao Tone, visual artist Senga Nengudi, and cho-
reographer and dancer Blondell Cummings create
one another during JAM's opening hours in antic-
ipation of an evening at the neighboring White Dog
Performance Studio. The resulting twenty-five-minute
performance was organized into eleven parts and
included both solo and group vignettes.’ In the first sec-
tion, “Polaroiditis,” the three artists paced the stage as
a recording played of them describing the process that
had resulted in what the audience was about to see:
Tone: I knew I had to compromise.

Nengudi: This was such a roller coaster ride.

Cummings: The key was not to control things
the way I usually do.*

Nengudi wore a black dress onto which she had affixed
Polaroid photographs of audience members. Prior to

the evening's performance, she had given out cards
with the following score, titled “Smile”:

I am from California. I want a photo of you
to take home as a memento of my visit. If
you don’t want your picture taken, cover
your face with this card or any way you
choose. Thank you. 5?

Nengudi‘’s costume literally brought the viewers
onstage, creating a ready form of audience participa-
tion and performance documentation. In the second
passage, “FrameWork,” Cummings contorted her face
as she mimed familiar gestures—pointing her finger to
call someone out, showing her palms to signal exaspera-
tion—abstracted from narrative content. She broke fluid
movement into stuttering parts, imitating a camera’s
rapid shutter, then stopped and held her hand above her
head, with one finger raised, in a gesture of confidence.
As the lights came up for the third vignette, “Photo
Essay I,” Tone read aloud in Japanese from a collection of
his essays.®* Then, a film made by the composer, which
featured pictorial translations of the Chinese characters
from three Tang poems—including images of a pagoda,
a palm tree, a skull, and a volcano—was projected on a
screen. Photo conductors converted the film’s shifting
light intensity into sounds resembling percussive tele-
vision static. In the essay he read, Tone theorized that
the meaning of an image occurs “only [within the] con-
text in which [that] image is laid.”** Like photography—a
medium included or referenced in all three artists’
contributions to their collaboration—the performance
insisted on its “blind date” with its context. —TJL

BELOW Invitation to BlondelL

50, Performance program for
Blind Dates. JAM Records, Box 33,

inspired by Ulysses Jenkins.”

51. The description of the perfor-
mance is based on video documen-
tation, which is available online st
https:flvimeo,com/7775432,

52, Senga Nengudi, “Smile.” African
American Performance Art Archive,
University of North Carolina,

Hill, bupss rB/2009/12/01
blind-dates-s

53. Yasunao Tone, Gendai geijutna
no iso (The phase of contemporary
art] (Tokyo: Tabata Shoten, 1970),

54. Tone, “On ‘Seeing Photography;
unpublished English translation ofan
essay in Tone’s Gendai geutsu noi,
produced by him on the occasion of
Blind Dates. JAM Records, Box 3,
“Tone, Yasunao.”

