itinto.a major production facility. I'm always interested in
how we can generate the revenue we need to support artists
and creativity.

‘The other factor was that Hollywood was coming. | knew
the film industry was going to come back to New York
because it was this cyclical thing film and television did, and
Ihad been reading up on that. And | said, "Whoa, wouldn’tit
be really wild for productions not to have to go to Queens and ee
get caught in all that fucking traffic?” My daughter was an |
actress, so | had to go to Silvercup. What if there was a studio i
righthere in Manhattan with facilities and expertise that
could compete with the studios in Queens? We had this huge
space on Broadway, and I negotiated an option to purchase

Urgent

iwateoiave
ATTENTION

the building wheniit was time to renew our lease, The New Hork Gimes somnimnne rene rein
1° Howdid you support Just Above Midtown? Can you be Pevers [aur 275" | i [nrst2.96
specific?

ws Credit cards. ie aie oie

79 Okay. Where was the money coming from? es ey epee

198 Credit card debt. Yeah, | didn’t have any money. I didn’t New York, N.Y.

come from money. | didn’t make money. Credit card debt. i |

On one level, it’s obscene to pay interest, but that was the

resource | had. | could accumulate debt. PLEASE NOTE [2a To INSURE PROPER CREDIT. pie ee UPPER HALF WITH REMITTANCE,
T® Atthat time, did you think there were no other options? ioctl roe a
When JAM was nonprofit, did you try fundraising? 23u3| 29 fs [en ptgheds aod (leet
tos Yes, we did, and we threw event-based fundraisers, espe- x FINAL i

cially at Franklin Street. But as you and anyone who's worked NOTICE

inthe nonprofit sector knows, you need individual donors cy

who become loyal to you and support your organization over a ren Me Nee EY NF

time. But that wasn’t even a concept for me. State and federal
grants, while we got them—that shit's determined by the
whims of politicians, and precarious. |don'twantmy shitto | Be New di Horta Cimes
be built on those whims. If we're going to putall our energy Fier 2

inthis, let's create something that has value a hundred years
from now. What are we creating that can evolve over the next Ty

hundred years, support itself, and make life more equitable uae eT
for all of us? New York, N.Y.

To JAM at503 Broadway closed in 1986. What prompted Ls i
that?

los A number of things coalesced from different interest
groups that led ultimately to JAM’s closing asa physical
space. The first was that the realtors and developers who
were developing Broadway were really upset because | was,
renting out space at a lower per-square-foot rate than the
rate they charged. So they started complaining to the IRS
and saying, “It’s unfair competition,” because | could get
grants to subsidize and lower rent, and that was limiting their
ability to compete. These were people who had multiple
buildings. Why is this intimidating to you? How could you By Siren Se ee
be interested in twenty-five thousand square feet when you

ownentire buildings? fy : Yo AVOID INCONVENIENCE, PLEASE BRING IT TO THE
The IRS came in and said, “Are you renting space?” And ATTENTION OF THE COMPANY WHEN PAYING THIS BILL

Inaively responded, “Yeah.” I didn’t see what the problem PAYHENT DUE BY JUN 24 1983

was until they went, “It was notin your incorporation papers. PAYMENT REFLECTED THRU JUN 16 1983

You do art; you can't rent real estate.” That became a battle. AMOUNT OVERDUE (ae)

The other thing was that we had made the space so beautiful

; JUST ABOVE HIDTOHN INC NEH YORK TELEPHONE
that the landlords said they wanted me to renovate the whole 178 FRANKLIN ST GENERAL POST OFFICE
building. ! looked at them and | went, “Excuse me, that’s not Meta one HY MER YORSENY £0476

10013
what | do. I do art.” Along the way, | got an attorney and went

back to them to propose that they let us defer rent and use
the money for renovations and build a vested interest that
way. They agreed, but they wouldn’t putitin writing. They
used the excuse that they didn’t speak English.

PLEASE RETURN THIS PAGE WITH YOUR PAYMENT
209b06 702042) 402L200000000000000N000000000N000n0005Sss000011037

EB iia Ciaae ieee caries aes
