further shaped a twinned practice of sculpture and live
action in Cakewalk (1983), a meditation on historical
Black dance as a sacred, secular, and satirical form.
Multimedia artist Ulysses Jenkins (another comrade
from the West Coast) captured Cakewalk on video,
demonstrating the larger role that media played at
JAM downtown—and foreshadowing Goode Bryant’s
later role as a filmmaker.

“Culture is always changing, and the alternative
task is to interpret that transformation. Dissatisfaction
with the ordinary art world is the motivation to create
another dimension.”"! In this statement, Papo Colo
sums up the will to innovate that drove him, Goode
Bryant, and others in the community they made down-
town. JAM presented a solo show of his work in 1982,
the same year he and his partner, Jeanette Ingberman,
started their own gallery, Exit Art, on Broadway in
SoHo. A few years later JAM would move just two
blocks down the street. In the gallery’s last location,
Goode Bryant focused on building a laboratory where
artists could create in real time. Instead of exhibition
space, there were areas for artists to think and make
(and perhaps change the world). For Goode Bryant
the curatorial process was no longer memorialized in
objects but contained in living possibilities that held
out “an alternative or corrective to the failures of
mainstream institutions and ideologies.”!

JAM’s story also reflects the energies of Black feminism
that drove it and kept the gallery afloat for more than
a decade, despite inequities of funding, recognition,
and sponsorship. Goode Bryant’s focus, intent, and

F1a. 4 Lowery Stokes Sins,
Linda Goode Bryant, and
Horace Brockington prepari
for the opening of ait
Above Midtown, Fifty-Seventh
Street, November 1974

11. Papo Colo, “Alter the Native in
Rosati and Staniszewski, Alernatice
Histories, 15.

12, Rujeko Hockley, “Just Above
‘Midtown Gallery," in Morris and
Hockley, We Minted a Revwlution, 137.

13. Cummings was a friend of Goode
Bryant from their days at Spelman
College. The men who supported
JAM included AC Hudgins, Tony
Whitfield, and Fred Wilson, who
worked there, as well as Richard.
Powell and Horace Brockington.

14. Nizan Shaked, The Synthetic
‘Proposition: Coneeptuatism and the
Political Referent in Contemporary Ant
(Manchester: Manchester Univenity
Press, 2017), 1-2,

15. Lowery S. Sims, “Noah Jemison,”
Arts Magazine 51, no, 5 Qanary
1977); 14. See also Lowery Stokes
Sims, “Discrete Encounters: A
Personal Recollection of the Black
Art Scene of the 19705)" in Ener?
Experimentation: Black Arta and
Abstraction, 1964-1980, exh. cat, e8.
Kellie Jones (New York: The Studio
‘Museum in Harlem, 2006), 54.

16, Gylbert Coker,
Opening Wider
Amsterdam Nets, April, 1992.

17. Coker, “A Crowd at Just Above
Midtown,” Amsterdam Nes, August
5, 1978.

18, Coker, “The Process as Art”
Anisterdam Ness, Novernber 4, 1978;
the exhibition included work by
Banerjee, Wendy Ward Ehlers,
‘Susan Fitzsimmons, David Hammons,
‘Senga Nengudi, Randy Williams,
and composer Diana Wharton.

originality were of course paramount, from her arrival
in NewYork in 1972 to her opening the first commer-
cial venture dedicated to Black artists in one of the
art world’s premier commercial centers just two years
later, at the age of twenty-five. But she also relied on
the support of a cohort of Black women (and numer-
ous men) whose intellectual prowess, activism, and
fearlessness mirrored her own, and with whom she
felt kinship (fig. 4). Early on Gylbert Coker, Pat
Cummings, Lowery Stokes Sims, and Faythe Weaver,
among others, helped renovate the space, sat at the
front desk, and shared their own funds.'? At JAM
downtown, artists including Lorraine O’Grady and
Janet Olivia Henry volunteered. Matching these
women’s very real day-to-day engagement was their
innovative and radical critical and art historical work,
through which they made a place for JAM, and them-
selves, in the world.

In 1972, in the wake of its missteps with the Harlem
on My Mind exhibition of 1969, the Metropolitan
Museum of Art hired Sims in Education and Community
Programs; by 1974 she was the first—and for decades
would be the only—Black curator at what is arguably
this country’s most visible museum. In an art world
that clung to the trappings of certain types of formal
schematics, Sims insisted on a détente between
figuration and abstraction. Like Goode Bryant, she
foregrounded artists whose “critical practices” and, to
a certain degree, “overt subject matter” upset “assump-
tions about forms, materials, conventions of represen-
tation, or the institutional framework of art.” Writing
in Arts Magazine, Artforum, and High Performance,
she began to elucidate a broader investigative field for
Black artists, sketching the significance of Robert

