Contributors

Erie Booker is Assistant Curator and Exhibition
Coordinator at The Studio Museum in Harlem and the
‘editor of Smokehouse Associates (2022).

Content Object (c/o) is an award-winning Los
Angeles-based design studio, founded in 2012 by
Kimberly Varella, that produces content-driven,
object-oriented work specializing in book design.

Brandon Eng was the 2021-22 Mellon-Marron
Research Consortium Fellow in the Department of
Media and Performance at The Museum of Modern
‘Art, New York. He isa PhD candidate in art history at
the institute of Fine Arts, New York University.

Thelma Golden is the Director and Chief Curator at
‘The Studio Museum in Harlem,

Marielle Ingram is a writer and filmmaker. She
isalso Special Projects Assistant at Project EATS
‘and @ PhD student in the Department of Art History
and Archaeology at Columbia University, New
York. She was the 2018-20 Twelve-Month Intern in
the Department of Media and Performance at The
Museum of Modern Art, New York.

Kellie Jones is Chair of the Department of African,
American and African Diaspora Studies and Hans
Hofmann Professor of Modern Art in the Department
of Art History and Archaeology at Columbia
University, New York. She is the author of South of
Pico: African American Artists in Los Angeles in the
1960s and 1970s.

YelenaKeller is Curatorial Assistant, Exhibitions, at
The Studio Museum in Harlem,

‘Thomas (T.) Jean Lax is Curator in the Department
of Media and Performance at The Museum of Modern
Art, New York.

Legacy Russells the Executive Director and Chief
Curator of The Kitchen, New York, and the former
Associate Curator, Exhibitions, at The Studio Museum
InHstlem. Her most recent book is Glitch Feminism:
A Manifesto,

Lilia Rocio Taboada js Curatorial Assistant in the
Department of Media and Performance at The
Museum of Modern Art, New York. She was a 2020-21

Museum of Modern Art/Studio Museum in Harlem
Curatorial Fellow,

‘over her nearly fifty-year career, Linda Goode
Bryant has assumed mony roles: gallery owner,
filmmaker, farmer, entrepreneur, and activist. In each
position, she has advocated “our innate ability to use
Wat we have to create what we need” and developed
niving installations” that feature collaborative activities
capable of changing the circumstances of those who
porticipate in them.

‘Goode Bryant was born in Columbus, Ohio, in1949,
and earned a bachelor of arts degree in painting from
‘Spelman College. She moved to New York City to pur-
suea master’s degree in at history at City College in
1972, and two years later opaned Just Above Midtown
AN), a gallery centered on African American artists,
and artists of color. At each of its three locations, in
Midtown, Tribeca, and SoHo, it offered early—and
often unique—opportunities to artists, providing
space and money for them to experiment freoy,
unconstrained by art-market pressures. After closing
JAM in 1986, Goode Bryant—who hed received an
MBA from Columbia University in 1980—worked
a senior policy analyst for development in Mayor
David Dinkins’s administration. In the mid-1990s she
decided to dedicate herself to filmmaking. Her doo-
Flag Wars (2003), codirected with Laura
,, was shot over four years in Goode Bryant's
hometown, An intimate portrait of a community
<dealing with the tension between preservation and
sentrifcation, it received numerous honors, includ-
ingan Emmy nomination and a Peabody. Other films
by Goode Bryant include Hurricane Teens (1998) and
Can You See Me Now? (2006), collaborative projects

that explore young people and community formation
in New York City and beyond. Her workin film earned
her a Guggenhoim Fellowship in 2004,

In 2004, Goode Bryant also established the Active
Citizen Project (ACP) to involve disenfranchised and
non-voting youth and adults around the country
in crafting and campaigning for local and national
platforms that addressed issues important to them.
In2009, ACP’s work shifted from elections to Project
EATS, a network of small-plot, high-yield farms and
rolated programs located in low-income communities
‘throughout New York, including Belmont and Mott
Haven in the Bronx and Brownsville and Cypress Hill
in Brooklyn. Goode Bryant continues to experiment
with methods of connecting culture, nature, and

sustenance through new kinds of creative collective
production. In 2024, she collaborated with archi-
tect Elizabeth Diller on Are we really that diferent?,
an installation that brought farming and video into
‘conversation as part ofthe exhibition Social Works at
New York's Gagosian Gallery. The following year, she
served as artistic director of RAW Académie at ICA:
Infrastructure, a seven-week residential program at
the Institute of Contemporary Artin Philadelphia that
‘sought to relmagine the possiblities for an alternative
arts infrastructure,

Linde Goode teyant. Are
ue fot tren es.
ides (eator, soe)

oun

