To the Present

In 1974, Linda Goode Bryant and a loyal group of
friends announced the opening of Just Above Midtown.
“A new gallery providing an alternative approach to
viewing,”' JAM conceptualized a model of being to-
gether that was unavailable at other institutions. In the
years immediately preceding JAM’s opening, Goode
Bryant had worked at a variety of art museums, includ-
ing the Metropolitan Museum of Art, where she had
held an education fellowship paid for by the Rockefeller
Foundation. The program, which was funded for three
years, aimed to train “the new breed of museum staff
members, the socially concerned art historian or cura-
tor, and the art-wise social worker,” with an eye to “hir-
ing minorities.”? But midway through its funding cycle,
a program officer at the foundation already expressed
concerns about its efficacy, writing, “One fellow appar-
ently has no desire to work in a museum at all!”

The fellows had their own reservations. One
recalled that they got people with defined personalities
and then expected you to sit there and do what you were
told (fanet Olivia Henry). Instead, Goode Bryant left
the program, which was intended to last a year, four
months in for a job as Education Coordinator at The
Studio Museum in Harlem, a position she still held
when she started JAM. Then as now, she wanted “to
create an infrastructure with real-life consequences,”*
near but outside the museum, able to better respond to
the needs of the time.

The needs of artists and artistic communities in
JAM’s moment echo in our own. Consider a few exam-
ples of the types of headlines that have appeared in
the art and popular press since 2020: “A New Gallery
Opens with an All-Black Staff,” “The Swift, Incredible
Rise of a Singular Black Artist,” “A New Vanguard.

Is Reshaping the Art World.”? Uncannily, these recent
stories, which implicitly equate the rising interest in
black art with structural change, might have been
written about the circle of friends and volunteers that
made up JAM, which in its time struggled to get press.
In a present often imagined as existing without viable
alternatives, JAM offers one in which indebtedness,
spirit, and motherhood—value systems not historically
prioritized by institutions like MoMA—provide ways
of acknowledging that we need one another, as well as
models for turning entanglement into creativity.

JAM?’s formation as a gallery was a means to an
end. That end was also an impossibility: the total reor-
ganization of art’s infrastructure. JAM did not envision
creating an all-black artistic program. Its disbelief
in stylistic coherence created an openness to who and
what could find protection under an idea of black art.

It also aimed to create a sense of possibility for artists
and a belief that anyone could become a maker.*
But its business model—which relied on being in the
red—did not pretend to offer a viable avenue for
self-reliance, that hallmark of black excellence. Instead,

it asked how a place for assembly might offer artists
the chance to try things that they might otherwise
deem too costly—told by others (or themselves) that
they shouldn’t take the risk. Could this space incite a
wide-eyed not-knowing, curiosity, and searching with
others? Could that intimacy then be felt in the stuff

of everyday life, or be folded into fantasy and desire?
Unexpectedly, art produced without institutional man-
dates (explicitly demanded or otherwise internalized)
emerged from the heart of New York’s blue-chip com-
mercial gallery district. This is a black and American
story as much as it is a testament to the extraordinary
drive of Linda Goode Bryant, the gallery’s founder and
director, and her ability to cannily make good on the
opportunities at her disposal.

In using what was available to get what it needed,
JAM was dependent on its environment.’ One index
of its resourcefulness can be gleaned from the mate-
rials of the artworks shown at the gallery: socks, lint,
hair, rocks, ribbons, nylon, sand, paper bags. Reusing
discarded or fungible matter, JAM artists evinced
an enterprising sensibility that was matched by the
know-how of the people who worked and volunteered
at JAM. In addition to holding day jobs at a variety of
other cultural institutions, they were animated by what
Kellie Jones calls “the energies of Black feminism” in
her essay in this volume.® My essay was written in rec-
ognition of JAM’s staff, volunteers, and friends (fig. 1);
their voices form its narrative meter.’ Their quotes,
excerpted from oral histories conducted especially
for this project, are italicized. Other selections from
the oral histories punctuate the rest of this book and
appear on its cover. They are at times fractious, even
rancorous, yet in their cacophony foster a sense of
unity. These first-person accounts enrich the stories
told by the myriad records Goode Bryant kept over
the years, which appear throughout this catalogue and
have been a scripture for our research and interpreta~
tion, our process of making and structuring this exhibi-
tion.'° Together, these sources have allowed us to treat

Fig. 4

oprostre Senga Nengudi. per-
forming Air Propo at Just
Above Midtown/Downtown,
Franklin Street, 1984

Fis. 1 Clockwise from top
left: Andy Owens, Linda
Goode Bryant, David Hammons,
Lowery Stokes Sims, Cheryl
Mason Dorman, Faythe Wea
Florence Harding, and
Roberta Wolfe Bryant, with
Elizabeth Catlett's Homage
to My Young Black Sisters
(1888) before the opening of
the exhibition Synthesis,
Just Above Midtown, Fifty-
Seventh Street, 1974

‘My account of Just Above Midtown
hhas been informed first and foremost
by countless conversations Ihave had
with Linda Goode Bryant from 2018
10.2022.

1. Advertisement for the exhibition
Synthesis, 1974. Just Above Midtown
Gallery Records (JAM Records), exact
location unknown. Collection Linda
Goode Bryant, New York.

2. Harry Parker III, Vice Director for
Education, the Metropolitan Museum
of Art, “Site visit, with PHW, to
community outreach programs and af-
filiates of the Metropolitan Museum:
‘The Bronx Museum at the Bronx
‘County Courthouse; The Cloisters;
and Museo del Barrio,” July 19, 1972,
p- 2. Rockefeller Foundation records,
Record Group 1.9 (Projects), Series
280 (Training in Museum Education),
‘Box R2098, “Metropolitan Museum
of Art,” 1972-73.

3.Memo from HK [Howard
Klein] to JHK John H. Knowles),”
November 26, 1974. Rockefeller
Foundation records, Record Group
1.9 (Projects), Series 280 (Training

in Museum Education), Box R2098,
“Metropolitan Museum of Art,” 1974.
4. Linda Goode Bryant, various
‘conversations with the author.

5. The first two headlines are my
adaptations of the following features:
Robin Pogrebin, “A New Zwimer
Gallery with an All-Black Staff," New
York Times, September 27, 2020; Nate
Freeman, “The Swift, Cruel, Incredible

6. Sydney Blum, email to the author,
March 23, 2022.

‘7."The word “dependent” invokes the

David Serlin (New York: NewYork
University Press): 54.

8, Kellie Jones, “The World According
to Linda Goode Bryant,” in the pres-
ent volume, 142,

