They became more and more persistent about me
renovating their building and moving people in, essentially
getting rid of the sweatshops. And then one day JAM’s admin-
istrator smelled gas and called Con Edison. ConEd came, and
hundreds of undocumented people ran out of the building.
The landlords decided they were going to kick me out for not
paying rent. We ended up in court, and when the judge ruled
in favor of the landlords, one of them cursed out his attorney
and said, “I don’t want her to go, I want her to fix the build-
ing." I turned to him and said, “Goodbye.”
to Itbecame untenable. And, as you already said, you got
caught in what were these shifting neighborhoods. So when
JAM closed its physical space, what was your vision then?
Because clearly you kept the idea of what it was alive.

108 My vision then was to take it to the streets. I've always
believed that people should be able to discover and engage
with art during the course of daily life. And don’t mean
public art installations. It goes back to Mr. Dillard, for sure.
But David has done that in his work, with the wine bottles,
basketball hoops, and what we now call “interventions.” He
would do things on sidewalks, in lots, on the beach in LA,
and people would discover them. And I'ma firm believer

in that, There were a number of ideas for projects that
involved interdisciplinary work. There were JAM concerts

in Mount Morris Park before it was renovated; it was a very
sketchy place. Butch Morris introduced me to Michael Dorf,
who was starting the Knitting Factory at that time, and we
programmed some concerts there. We presented jazz musi-
cians ata club in Greenwich Village [see Chronology,

p. 160].

1° Youcontinued to program and to engage, but you also
hada life in urban planning. You entered the administration
of New York City’s first Black mayor, David Dinkins. And then
eventually you began to think about your path asa filmmaker.

Let's talk about the current exhibition. How does it feel
to think in the present day about the history of Just Above
Midtown through the forum of an exhibition at The Museum
of Modern Art?
l8 My thinking is based on what I call the show's premise:
can JAM—how can JAM—be JAM at MoMA? Thatis a chal-
lenge. Can Black presence be in this white space? We're
thinking imaginatively and creatively in ways that allow the
energy that you've helped me to talk about today surface and
ask what JAM would do in that space.

And | should say this to you because | don’t know that!
ever have. You brought up the idea of me doing the JAM show
many years ago. You were insistent and persistent in the way
that only Thelma can be. That really stuck with me. Especially
when you said, “Don’t you wantto tell this story? You don't
want somebody else to tell this story.” That would floatin
and out of my head for years. The other thing that led me to
do the show was trying to find the can in can't. I've lived life
finding the can in can't. | believe if we're willing to do that,
we can make this happen. So, knock on wood, that’s what's
happened—JAM at MoMA being JAM.

To |t’snotjust the importance of you having to tell JAM's
story, JAM’s many stories, but also because in so many ways,
Isee very clearly how, from your time in Black institutions,
including the Studio Museum, to the creation of Just Above
Midtown, you set the groundwork for everything we are living
right now, We can trace those lines. In many ways you created
that generational break—the conversations you engaged in

with that generation of artists created this big open space for
a whole other generation of artists.

To ask if JAM can be JAM at MoMA is really to ask the big-
ger questions about these Black autonomous spaces: What
are they? What can they be? To me, JAM was a utopia that we
are trying to reach again in all these different manifestations
of Black space, The story of JAM makes clear that even when
JAM closed its physical space it remained this deep spiritual
space that people engaged with and still hold up. What this
brings us to is a way for the exhibition to catalyze new ideas
about institutions, organizations, ways to be, which is all that
you have givenus.

But finally, what I'll say, Linda, is that so much of JAM’s
story, and your story in terms of your path, is about this idea
of creation. The creation of self as an individual but alsoasa
community. Can you talk about where in your life this impetus,
spirit, and deep politic of self-creation comes from?

108 Definitely from the neighborhood | grew up in. | was born
a few years after World War II, when Black people had moved
into higher paying and more professionally bent jobs because
the white men were out to war. White people moved out of
my neighborhood and others like it when Black people moved
in. We were self-supporting and contained. There was a
cross section of Black folks all living together, economically,
professionally, politically. And because we weren't being
provided services by the state—when a community becomes
predominantly Black, services go away—we had to do that for
ourselves. So that certainly was formative. | think about how
strong that network was.

To That sense of the communal. | alwaysask you this, but!
have to say it again. How did you do this? You were a single
mother, raising your two kids among the art and artists. Wasit
the natural way for you, not just to work and live and mother,
but to bring it all together in that way?

108 | don’t know if! can answer that. | would just say, I've always
been an outsider. | was the only girl in a family of all boys

on both sides until | was eight. That was some hard-ass shit.
Being an outsider, being the one who was teased, made me
very comfortable with men. There ain't no mystery to that,
right? | just kind of thought they were knuckleheads. Unlike
alot of my girlfriends, I didn’t put up with their stuff. "You
realize these are knuckleheads? Why would you put up with
some shit like that?”

16 Being an outsider gave youa kind of independence.

108 My aunts and the women of my mother's generation
thought my spunkiness was... think they thought it was
odd. I think in many cases folks thought | was too much. But
I've always kind of been like that, so part of it's inmy DNA.

To That brought you to who you were to create this way of
working, this way of being.

108 The whole power thing, like the power of my boy cousins
cover me or the power of... just don’t relate well to power.
Except my own. I don’t really buy into it. Anything you can
do! can do better; | can do anything better than you. No,
you can't, Yes, I can. That song is something that I've always
identified with.

To Amantra.

oprostre Past-due bills|
disconnection notice

‘to Just Above Midtown,
and 1983

