This playful exhibition was “dedicated to love and
romance in all of its manifestations."** Upon enter-
ing, viewers were greeted by #3 (1983), a fairytale-like
painting by Renée Green, a then emerging artist who
had connected with JAM through her enrollment in the
Business of Being an Artist professional development
program (see Chronology, p. 98). The work pictures
@ pastoral scene in which a nude female figure plays
the harp, while a nude male figure looks on from afar,
a smirk on his face. The vibrant color palette lends the
narrative an upbeat quality, but details signal danger:
piranhas swim toward the woman's feet, their mouths
mirrored in the jagged edges of the flowers nearby, and
the male figure sends arrows flanked by flowers in her
direction. Heartbreak, it seems, is inevitable.

Near Green's work, on one of the show's pink
accent walls, two of John Ahearn’s sculptures of teen-
agers from the Bronx, Nancy and Kevin (both 1980),
gazed adoringly at one another. On the opposite wall
hung Robert Colescott’s drawing Bad Habits (1983),
which depicts an artist gazing at his nude model's
backside, before him a table bearing what appear to
be apie and an empty wine bottle—a scene of lust and
indulgence. Also on view were Thomas Fi kelpear!’s

large sculpture Suburban Bride (1983) a ee
Van Der Zee’s wedding gas jamnea
Texts—brought more |

vun24 Craig Bromberg
The Master’s Dream
Is the Slave’s Desire

Performance, Main Gallery

Art Biz p 134

“An exhibition of work by the participants
of The Business of Being an Artist seminar
series 1978-83"

June Adler, Dianne Arndt, Susan Aronson,
Marjorie Auerbach, Armelle Aymonin, Anne
Bell, Carol Blank, Sydney Blum, Sunjoon
Choh, James Connor, Michael Cummings, Dennis
Hawkes Degnan, Pamela Degnan, Jean-Jacque
Delaverriere, Theresa DeSalvio, Marianne
Edwards, Alison Felsenthal, Renée Green,
Herb Henry, Linda Hiwot, Marjorie K. Kouns,
Miriam Kurman, Michael Lee, Alan Long,
Whitfield Lovell, Leonard Mainor, Minda
Novek, Deborah Ossoff, Georgette Pascotto,
Lawrence Philip, Leela Ramotar, Judith
Rudnick, Robert Schechter, Susan Sauerbrun,
Libby Seaberg, Susan Shapiro

Naming Things: A Collaboration
David Hammons, Bill T. Jones,
Philip Mallory Jones

Performance featuring Poonie Dodson and
Rhonda Moore

Part of the series American Dreams (AD),
organized by Tony Whitfield

The three-night performance Naming Things was the
result of a collaboration—an “electric partnership"—
between three sought-after artists working across
different disciplines.** David Hammons designed the envi-
ronment,** sourcing a casket from a funeral home and sling
beach chairs from a furniture store to create a spare set.**
Philip Mallory Jones made a video installation consisting
of ten monitors that were shifted between scenes.” And
Bill T. Jones wrote a script in three acts with text spoken
by three characters: Writer (Bill T. Jones), Director (Rhonda
Moore), and Dancer (Poonie Dodson).

The first act, “Outing,” took place in a ruined the-
ater in medieval Italy, where the trio performed a
play beneath an abandoned gatehouse inscribed
with the word Paradiso. The second act, “After the
Theatre,” was set in a loft; Director read a review of
the trio’s play that described it as “a series of images
often inscrutable’—one of the performance’s self-re-
flexive nods. “Wake,” the last act, was located in a
funeral home, where Writer lay in rest before sitting
up and reciting a monologue about a “small boat . . .
careening towards the abyss.” At the end of the staged
action, Hammons and Mallory Jones broke the fourth
wall to join Jones onstage; all three sat in the chairs and
discussed the work they had just completed.** —TJL

ot4 Dreams on Screen, Videotapes
Video screening (AD)
ot4 Joshua Fried

Musical performance (AD)

LEFT, TOP ANO BOTTON Views
of the exhibition A Love
Story, 1983. Top,
Robert Colescott,
(1883); unknown; and John

line in Frank O'Hara's poem
“Memorial Day” (1950):"I doa
need a piano to sing, and

December 9, 2021.

68. Bill T. Jones, “In Three,"
JAM Records, Box 46,
