“No, you can’t go into the garage.” But that didn’t stop me
from asking the next time | went over. “Hey, Mr. Dillard, can
I go into the garage?” “No, you can’t go into the garage.” And
one day | said, “Mr. Dillard, | really want to go into the garage.”
‘And he went, “You can come into the garage today,” and he
opened it. He had collected things that people had discarded,
from dolls to broken chairs, to car parts, to whatever, and he
made them live again through the most amazing magic. And
tome that was like, “If you can take something that people
think has no value and make it have life again... that's artand
I'm an artist. That's what | wantto do.”

Using what you have to create what you need is some-
thing that people who don’t have financial resources do
ina world that is driven by money. You have to take what
you have to create what you need, and what you create is
something that’s coming out of you, your spirit, your soul,
and your passion as life force. So anyway, those are two
long stories.
Amazing. Eventually, you come to the idea of starting a
gallery. You're at the Studio Museum, but you know you want
to open a space. You havea sense of a vision of who the
‘space is for. You make the decision, based on what you
want to create, to geta space on Fifty-Seventh Street, and you
manage to geta lease. Can you describe the first space,
whatit looked like and meant to be on Fifty-Seventh Street?
198 There were three offices on our floor. One was a fabric
store and one was Mario, who was the tailor for everybody,
from Walt Frazier to Miles Davis. On one of the upper floors
there wasa recording studio, Decca. Miles used to record
there and then come down to the tailor. JAM’s space was in
the middle, and it was 724 square feet. It was small. The win-
dows had been covered up, which | thought was perfect fora
gallery. The floor was linoleum. It hadn’t been used in along
time because nobody really wanted a space that small in
between two bigger spaces. Allan Frumkin, who was a major
art dealer at that time, was on the second floor. Terry Dintenfass
wasin the building. There were other galleries in the building.
Artists and friends came to help to lay parquet flooring and
build out JAM’s space.
T@ And the first exhibition?
198 It was called Synthesis, and it was a group exhibition that
featured artists who were working in the abstract continuum
of Western art, and also those working in a more figurative
and representational continuum [see Chronology, p. 29].
Even though my inclinations definitely leaned toward experi-
mental work, it took me a couple years to goin that direction,
Because | did feel a lot of pressure from artists. New York
artists. Benny Andrews, Camille Billops, and Vivian Browne
could be very convincing.
1? When JAM opened, there was a demand to be representa-
‘tional, both from figures in the previous generation, like Romare
Bearden, and from the peers of the artists you were showing.
Can you talk a bit about the landscape of that moment?
tos. In terms of the Black community, there was fierce debate,
between artists making representational art and those mak-
ing nonrepresentational work, about the definition of Black
art. What was Black art? Were artists who made nonrepre-
sentational work “Black artists”? And there wasa kind of rivalry
between artists based on where they lived, between New
York and California artists, anda more subtle one between
Los Angeles and Bay Area artists. Of course, there were Black
artists working throughout the country, notably in Chicago,

oa ee

Boston, and DC, and they were also part of the conversation.
So when | decided JAM was going to show artists based in
New York, California, and elsewhere, New York City artists
made their objections known.

Most Black-run art organizations in Manhattan, Brooklyn,
and Queens tended to exhibit representational work, which
Icalled “red-green-and-black” or “Black-women-nursing-
babies” art because those were common elements. It was
considered nationalist art. | identified as a nationalist, but!
wasn't drawn to that aesthetic. Artist-run organizations such
as Tom Lloyd's Store Front Museum in Queens, Weusi-Nyumba
Ya Sanaa Gallery in Harlem, and Where We At Black Women
Artists created opportunities for Black artists to meet and show
their work. I was at the Studio Museum, and while it was a vi-
brant space, especially for artists, people who walked by the
museum every day or lived across the street were not coming
in. wanted more of them to come into the museum. JAM was
on Fifty-Seventh Street, and Black folks didn’t usually come
to Fifty-Seventh Street then. So engaging folks at JAM who
weren't going into museums was complicated.

T@ Youwere trying to create a different model separate from
the ways the “community”—we put that in quotes—was_
imagined to engage with art, and in direct response to what
Black artists wanted and needed at that time. Can you talk
about the exhibition openings at JAM? Because that would
allow us to then talk about how you created this space that
was different from anything else. | have lived with the stories
of those legendary openings, which were the meetings of

so many worlds and people, not just in the art world, but in
music, fashion, film.

18 The cross-fertilization in that little seven-hundred-square-
foot space was amazing because every segment of the Black
community came in. Whatever their motivations for coming,
however they identified, professionally or creatively, those

Linda Goode Bryant
with her father, Floy:
Goode, Columbus, Ohio, 1950

