page by page, which together form anarrative. In vol.
no, 2, “Altered Statements,” Henry paired twelve art-
ists based on how their practices contrasted with one
‘another. Each artist created a work that their partner
then altered, using their “differences as a catalyst,” as,
the opening spread explains: reproductions of both the
‘original and thereinterpretation areincluded. This proj-
‘ect complicates traditional notions of artistic author-
ship on two levels: Fist, “Altered Statements" treats
the shift between works as the art, authored by the
differences between the coupled artists, Second, the
role ofthe editoris complicated by the fact that the art-
Ists edited one another's work after Henry had fulfilled
the editorial task of pairing them. In vol 2. no, 2, Henry
eschewed language altogether: there is no explanation
of what each artist was invited to do, and no articles,
listings, or other textual content. Composed solely of
full-page spreads of artists" images, it makes an argu-
ment for the sel-suificiency of visual storytelling. —nrx

mez Blondel Cummings, Hope Gillerman,
John Kelly, Lisa Kraus,
Harry Whittaker Sheppard
Retakes
Dance perforsances

1986

ami Hope Gillerman, John Kelly, Lisa
Kraus, Harry Whittaker Sheppard
Retakes » 05
Dance performances

Jae Holly Fairbank
‘2 The Interpreter
‘Amazing Powers of Memory
ANight at the Opera
Bill Bissell
Framed
Performances, featuring Bill issel1,
Karen Booth, Holly Fairbank, Michael
Fuludter, Carol Kuotfer

4o2 The Butch Morris Project
3 Dances by Colleen Mulvihil
with Music by Butch Morris,

J. A. Deane & Bill Horvitz
Porforsance
Part of thy

ries Shared Resources (SR)

wz Bill Bissell and Holly Fairbank
Complex
Performance

sanz Elizabeth Streb
Jungle Gym
Dance, Laboratory Project

Arleen Schloss
ABC Performance
Performances (SR)

fx The Butch Morris Project:
New Works for Large Ensembles
Musical performance (SR)

vara The Butch Morris Project:
New Works for Large Ensembles
musical performance (SR)

torse- Kaylynn Sullivan

"8 Fandango
Perfornances, featuring Sullivan
And He Had Six Sisters

Performances, featuring Sullivan and
Robin Kaiser, Bonnie Kline, Rebecca Perrin,
‘iva Rogers, Sandye Wilson, Lisa Wolpe

When JAM was located in Tribeca and then SoHo, it
played a vital role in the downtown theater and per-
formance community. Performers and playwrights as
diverse as Adrienne Kennedy, Lenora Champagne, and.
Daryl Chin submitted work for consideration or were.
featured in JAM’s program. Among its peers, JAM was
a uniquely important space for performance by Black,
Brown, and Indigenous women, who were often cre-
atively responding to exclusion and violence experi-
enced across generations. Among them were Kaylynn,
Sullivan TwoTrees (then Sullivan) and the members of
the company Spiderwoman Theater, all of whom incor-
porated memory and oral history into “counterprac-
tices” that addressed the daily challenges and stereo-
typical representations faced by women of color, while
playing with the capacity of performance to bridge the
divide between the world of the studio or gallery andlife,
beyond it.*

TwoTrees joined the JAM community at Franklin
Street as a performance artist with a background in
dance and theater; she also served as a consultant to
the gallery. Her debut work, Victims (1981), addressed,
domestic violence and was grounded in a childhood
story of murder in her family. Audience members were
presented with a series of vignettes in the form of
video footage, audio recordings, and a performance by
‘TwoTrees and Tone Blevins, all while the smell of roast-
ing chicken filled the space.* The work concluded with
the audience eating the freshly cooked meal, which.
reinforced the association that had been established
between nourishment, consumption, and violence, and
brought the audience into the situation they had just
witnessed." As Robert Massa wrote in the Village Voice,
the work “was not only ‘conceived’ but ‘actualized’
through TwoTrees's experimentation with the dual role
of witness and participant.” In Victims (plural), collec
tive participation offered a creative means to disruptthe
‘experience of the victim (singular).

Experimentation with ensemble productions and
narratives about interpersonal history continued at 503

15. Jon Monel Se Be
ey es Sepembe

‘oral dame tne

Homie ange ad i Sters ana onde
and body language. The previous year, Soe ert anil
8 ge Th evening tied Tree Werk
fy vee Not abortive wereroee
which honed cemman Thostera averse oP
By the 8s a rte by in Mayo and ater
Bitar tt nels owner a rca
tn ae rormeaving” itertwining sorvellNG
wee oss ana Nove Krai

sere hi Were Things Are ridden) performed)
1 cen oat nce tented an performed

ere res rand ston) Jolene Rekard=

Steve Coleman and Five Elements
Music for the Mind and Body
Performance (SR)

wert

jor David Hammons
Ney22 part of the sories On the Spot (0S)

tury partornnes of Kayhyan
Seite etre Aad
‘otegraph by Larry Goss
seis Invitation tothe eh=
itlon bord mons, 3808

mm obin Holconb
Musical performance (SR)

jor 20- Dan Hurlin
yor performances
Arleen Schloss with Butch Morris
and Christa Gamper
Excerpts from an Opera Cabaret
Performance (SA)

jle Passage
George Sams and Midd
(Anthony Brown, India Cooke,
Stephen "Kash" Killion)
Musical porforsance (58)

