May 5, 1987

Dear Artists, Friends, Colleagues and Patrons,
jam JAM is still here with a keener eye, a more perceptive ear,
an increasingly sensitive touch, a better smell, an even higher

taste for quality and enough guts to grow from the challenge of
jam change.

JAN has faced many challenges since the fall of 1983 when the
jam => of its Franklin Street space forced its untimely move. Upon
notice of the sale, JAM had to shift its attention from an active
year of regular exhibition and presenting programs, the imple-
mentation of a major project on popular culture and a documentary
jam on the art meiket to an assessment of its organizational and
program needs for the future. As a result, JAM made several
major changes: organizationally it sought to sionificantly
JSAIM increase its earned income and secure 2 long-term site for its
activities through the development of a large Soho spac
Programmatically, it introduced the "Laboratory Program" which
jam allowed JAM to provide artists with financial, administrative and

Creative support in the development of new art and/or new art
forms,

jam JAM was successful in these efforts. External conditions,
however, adversely effected JAM's ability to remain in the spece
and in August 1986 JAN moved. From then, JAF worked toward
jam strengthening and reorganizing itself so that it could
effectively resume programs which continued to address the
current needs of artists and their public(s).

jem
clear up the debris from the past and excited as hell about the
programs we've planned in the coming year. From new artists, new

jem works, and new environments to new formats? (yes, there is 2 By
Culture). We're kicking it off with a 4 night, music/performance
series at the Knitting Factory, 47 East Houston Street between

arr Nott and Mulberry, At 9 & 11 PM you can listen to Geri Allen,

j solo on June 2; Graham Haynes & Yo Image on June 3, Fred Holland
pug ponceliosre on June 4, and Lawrence (Butch) oe pens
on dune 5th, We're working on a vocal surprise on the :

jem

Yes, JAM's still here, proud about the progress we're making to |

Yes, we're out to get your enthusiastic, emphathetic and, of
course, energetic support. It's a support we need to make it
am happen...so Jet's get started folks...get/stay in touch, for

together we are going to have one wonderfully exciting (uh huh)
vnexpected year!

FEQEPe sincerely,

obeel~

Tnéa Goode Bryant

Just Above Midtown, Ine. » P.O. Box 1824 + Canal Street Station + New York, N.Y. 10018 + (212) 787-6258

