Febis- Mallica “Kapo” Reynolds
Mar8  Kapo: Paintings and Sculpture

This exhibition was funded by the singer Roberta Flack,
one of several celebrities who frequented JAM, and an
avid supporter of Mallica “Kapo” Reynolds's work. The
Jamaican artist painted portraits of women he knew
well, including Flack (plate 6), as well as biblical figures
like Salome and Solomon, all shown against earth- or
sky-colored backgrounds and with their faces half in
shadow.

Kapo was a famous preacher of Revivalism, a syn-
thesis of Evangelicalism and Afro-descendent cosmol-
ogies—and as such a homegrown form of resistance to
the cultural imperialism that marked colonial rule and
its aftermath. (The name Kapo was short for Captain,
the title often given to Revivalist leaders.)* Moved by a
divine vision, he had started making art in the 1940s.
His teeming group portraits picture his congregation at
St. Michael's Revival Apostolic Tabernacle, in Kingston,
dancing and singing in the spirit, or gathering around an
altar table. There She Go Satan (1974; plate 5) depicts
a robed figure with seven horns and the feet of a bird.
A band of angels hovers above her, while three church
elders, recognizable by their turbans, stand to the side,
signaling that she is beyond redemption”

After Independence, Kapo was, alongside sev-
eral other self-taught artists, celebrated as a symbol of
a nascent national identity. His work was extensively
collected by and prominently exhibited at the National
Gallery of Jamaica, and he was awarded Jamaica's
Order of Distinction in 1982." In his show at JAM, Kapo's

ce

Feb.18-March8 Just Above Midtown Gallery
SO WestSith Street Sth floor
New ork, New York
rch 2-22 ith-Mason Galler
en POP RRR Roa Neve. NW
Washington, DC

homeland was manifest in both images and materials,
in paintings of his community and of landscapes with
impastoed flowers, fruit trees, and mountains, and in
sculptures of mythological, allegorical figures carved
from indigenous lignum vitae and mahogany. —TJL

Mar 1e- David Boxer

Mar 28 Diptychs, Triptychs, and Polyptychs
Marie~ Nancy Prager

Mar 29

Atmospheric Landscapes

Lert Mock-up of announcement
for the exhibition Kapo:
Paintings and Sculpture, 1975

BELOW Adrienne Hoard at
the opening of th

an
1976. Photograph
Billops

Aeanan arte Landscapes, 1975

'5, Jamaican Revivalism was developed
in the 1860s by the descendants of
formerly enslaved people, Like other
practitioners, Kapo was often the
target of state violence under colonial
rule,

6. Ena Campbell, "Symbols of Beauty,
‘Symbols of Hope, Symbols of Life
‘The Organic Unity in Kapo's Re

Collection, exh. cat. (Kingston: Nati
Gallery of Jamaica, 1982), 11.

7. O'Neil Lawrence, Chief Curator,
National Gallery of Jamaica, email
to the author, March 7, 2022, Kirt
Henry, Assistant Curator, also sup-
plied helpful information,

8, David Boxer, who championed
Kapo’s work in his various roles at
the National Gallery from 1975 until
2013, was also an artist and had his
‘own solo exhibition at JAM in 1975,
