who stands before a gallery wall punctured with bam-
boo crosses, part of the work's installation component,
which also included freestanding cruciform sculptures
covered in a gauzy cream-colored fabric. Nengudi
holds her hands over her face as she exhales in short,
sharp breaths. She fills herself up like a balloon and then
buckles backward on her toes, holding her breath. She
releases air and heaves forward, grabbing her mouth
with her right hand and struggling to blow air through
jit. Cut back to Morris, who plays discordant notes as
dancer and choreographer Cheryl Banks-Smith (then
Banks) moves around and then through his legs.
Nengudi described her act of exhalation in Air
Propo as a way of “being a conduit... allowing the self
to be gone and .. . this other spirit to come in.”? Her

reflection on the elasticity of selfhood might also be
applied to artistic authorship, and in particular to that
of the installation she made for the performance. Its
shapes and materials referenced Salvador Dali's paint-
ing The Discovery of America by Christopher Columbus
(1958-59), which pictures a sea of ivory-skinned con-
quistadors setting foot in the “New World” amid crosses
and ship sails. Nengudi recontextualized this celebra-
tion of conquest and inspired it with her own breath,
creating a conduit between “Americans” in Columbus's
time and hers. —TJL

LA/London Lab

Nancy Buchanan, Rose English, Feminist Art
Workers, Rose Finn-Kelcey, Cheri Gaulke,
Judith Higginbottom, Tina Keane, Sonia
Knox, Leslie Labowitz, Linda Montano,
Sharon M. Morris, Linda Nishio, Hannah
0’Shea, Sally Potter, Carlyle Reedy,
Martha Rosler, Barbara Smith, Chris Swayne

Mar 4—
Mar 22

Organized by Susan Hiller and Suzanne Lacy
for Franklin Furnace

Venues: 626 Bway, Franklin Furnace,
Just Above Midtown

Performances at JAM: Rose English, Adventure
of Revenge; Sonia Knox, Echoes from Ireland;
Martha Rosler, Spinning into the 80s

Film screening at JAM: Sally Potter, Thriller

LA/London Lab was a three-week series of programs
featuring performances and videos by women artists
based in Los Angeles and London, aimed at show-
casing the positive impact of creating support struc-
tures for women in the arts. The artists who organized
the event—Susan Hiller and Suzanne Lacy, Americans
based in London and Los Angeles, respectively—did so
in response to the Guggenheim Museum’s 1979 exhi-
bition British Art Now: An American View, which didn’t
include any artworks by women. LA/London Lab took
place at three New York venues: Just Above Midtown;

LeFT View of Senga Nengudi"
exhibition Vastige, 1960

BELOW Sonia Knox performing
Echoes from Ireland,
Jocation and date unknown

22. Senga Nengudi, interview by
‘Thomas (T) Jean Lax and Lila Ross
‘Taboada, February 12,2021. Juxt
Above Midtown Gallery oral itary
Project, transcript, Department

‘of Media and Performance,The
‘Museum of Modern Art, NewYork

