Apres

Nov i2- Susan Fitzsimmons

ee 3 Transparent Relationships

Decs- Randy Williams

yn? Recent Works with Paper

1978

Jan to- Jorge Luis Rodriguez

Feb Recent Sculpture

Feb7- Wendy Ward Ehlers:

Mer Group Show 1978 » ©3
Organized by Wendy Ward Ehlers

Mar 18- Houston Conwill

Notes of a Griot » 60

Houston Conwill’s performances and_ installations
invoked African spiritual practice, personal allegory,
and ritual to explore notions of tradition. Confronting
a diasporic history shaped by transatlantic slavery,
Conwill’s work celebrated survival and imagined future
possibilities for Black existence.”

_ Conwill produced large wall hangings—petri-
-graphs”—by combining latex and rhoplex to create skin-
‘like strips that he then sewed together and embossed
with found objects and symbols, which he referred to
as “‘memory’ images.””* Ten of these elastic works were
shown in the artist’s debut exhibition at JAM. At the

opening, Conwill staged the performance Notes of a
Griot (1978; see above), which demonstrated his inter-
pretation of juju, a term used in West Africa to describe
an object with supernatural powers.” On the gallery
floor were two circular areas composed of sand and
crushed bark, containing handmade stools and a collec-
tion of ritual objects such as flasks and ointments, their
perimeters delineated by gray stones (see plate 31).
Assuming the role of a griot—a West African musician
and storyteller who performs tribal histories—Conwill
sat on one of the stools and recited an invocation
inspired by narratives of his own making and by imani
(faith), one of the Nguzo Saba (Swahili for “seven princi-
ples”) of Kwanzaa.*° He was then joined by Ed Fletcher,
Al Jackson, and Diana Wharton, who played music
and chanted, as well as David Hammons, who whirled
around the room performing a knife dance to dispel
negative energy. Drawing the past into the present,
Conwill’s performances and objects took on the nonlin-
ear temporality of the diasporic experience, with Africa
as a recursive origin point. The juju ceremony, the artist
asserted at the time, “taps a vital source and brings with
it realities of spiritual truths and energies which may
always arise anew.“ —YK

maris A Book Party for Contextures

p 59

The JAM community gathered to celebrate the publica-
tion of Contextures, a monumental project in which
Linda Goode Bryant and Marcy S. Philips articulated
ideas about abstraction that were fundamental to
JAM’s program and the artists the gallery champi-
oned.*? Contextures was more than a book; it was a
blueprint for a way of thinking and making that evinced
JAM's spirit.

asove Houston Conwili.
por forming Notes of a
Griot, 1978

tert Susan Fitzsimmons.
Water-Fall. 1977. Shown
installed in Fitzsimmons's
‘exhibition Transparent
Relationships, 1977

opposite Linda Goode Bryant's
draft recommendation letter
in support of Wendy Ward
Ehlers’s “Lint Museum" proj-
ect, n.d. [1974-79]

37. Kellie Jones, South of Pico: African
American Artists in Los Angeles in the
1960: and 1970s (Durham, NC: Duke
University Press, 2017), 221. Jones
writes, "In Notes of a Griot (Imani’s
Tale, Conwill's rite, with its fixation on
ancestors, acknowledged this loss and
sought to exorcise the accompanying
pain with the knife dance. Bur the
focus was also on what came next:
moving into the future, survival.”

38, Houston Conwill, untitled text
written for the exhibition Notes ofa
Griot, March 1978. JAM Records,
‘Box 77, “Artists and Writers.”

39, The description of the performance
that follows is based primarily on 4
Richard J. Powell, “Notes of a Griot
Demystifies New York," Nevorld 5,
no. 2 (March/April 1979): 12. JAM
Records, Box 77, “Artists and’

40. Jones, South of Pico, 220.

41. Conwill, untitled text written for
Noes of a Griot.

42, Linda Goode danatae and Marcy
'S. Philips, Contextures (New York:
Just Abore Midtown, 1978). Goode
‘Bryant and Philips met when both.
‘were attending the City College of
‘New York. Philips was instrumental

in researching and promoting the
book, while Goode Bryant formulated
the concept of Contextures. Goode
‘Bryant, conversation with Lilla Rocio
‘Taboada and Thomas (T.) satan
‘Avgust 2021,
