distinctions started to break down. And people didn’t just
come to the openings; people hung out at the gallery and
came by frequently. It was kind of like the Artist-In-Residence
program at the Studio Museum when | was thera, Folks were
there sharing ideas, relating to one another, being creative,
and just being human together. But the mix at JAM was more
diverse than at the Studio.

And then there were the debates, including the one at
David Hammons's first solo show at JAM [see Chronology,
p. 33]. | first saw the work when it arrived, and | said, “Hmm,
this may need some explanation,” Sol asked Lowery [Stokes
Sims] to write something that we could hand out to people
if they wanted it. She wrote this piece that had her humor in
it; she could have done stand-up. And when David got there
right before people arrived and saw Lowery’s text ona
podium by the door, he said, “Whatis this?” “Read it.""You
can't describe the work to somebody. They have to see this
themselves.” He told me to get rid of Lowery’s essay and | did.
This opening was one of JAM’s largest openings. People
were outside, down in the stairwells, in the lobby, and out the
building—almost as many people as there had been atthe
‘opening of JAM's first exhibit. People were coming in expect-
ing to see body prints, but there weren't any. David told me
he wasn't making more body prints. Instead, he was making
work with brown paper bags, barbecue bones, grease,
and hair. Abstract and figurative artists came and talked about
the work in their different “tribes.” Artists in both groups
were angered by the work. Some confronted David, asking,
“What the fuck is this shit, man?” He just stared and didn’t
say anything. The tension in the room kept building. Finally,
asked everybody to sit down, shut up, and have a conver-
sation. Things got heated. First people said, “You can’t make
art with barbecue bones and hair. Thisisn’t art.” But after a
while someone asked, “Well, why not? Why are you objecting
to what he’s making art with? Why's that a problem?” Those
words kind of sat there until a few more people said, “Wait a
minute. Yeah, why not?”
To Whatisso apparent—particularly in that ‘74 to ‘78 period,
in that set of exhibitions and your first exhibition with David—
is that you were creating the ground for what we now think of
as Black conceptual art, not in relation to a debate about fig-
uration and abstraction, which had ruled the conversations
about Black art for so long, but as this other space that was so
much more expansive and tied to risk and experimentation.

Can you talk about what it meant to be a woman gallerist
inthat moment, particularly in relation to race? How did you
navigate this Black cultural space from the perspective of
being a woman?
198 | experienced a lot of hostility from some of the gallerists
onFifty-Seventh. Some of them couldn't pass up an opportu-
nity to say something insulting when we were forced to be in
the elevator or the lobby together. A lot of them were angry
with Bill Judson for renting the space to me—Black and single
with two kids.

There were a few galleries supportive of me being there.
Female dealers extended themselves: Terry Dintenfass
and Betty Parsons, mostly through Jack Tilton, who was
working for her. They shared how hard it was to be a female
inthis business. The men didn’t show us the same respect
they showed each other. The women talked about that and
acknowledged how difficult it was for me to be Black and
female. And | realized, “This woman thing is everywhere.”

4 i ee ei ee,

loartalnly experiariond it iti this Hlaok eerritritriity, beet it
became part of try corisciotiations iri thie art world. Mri sure
there were titres thiat | er JAN wierileler t hienves cyerttenni thirentieyt
Itif not for these worniett

But, you know, it’s kind of furry because part of rie
couldn't be bothered with that. | didn’t think of rriyself that
way until they presented it, to be honest. That's how I've
always been. | can’t be fixated on that.
10 One of your goals with Just Above Midtown was to bring
more awareness about Black artists to audiences and collec-
tors. One of the ways you achieved this was through JAM’s
melding of the commercial and the nonprofit.
‘oa We opened as a commercial gallery in 1974 but applied
for and secured nonprofit status in 1975. In JAM’s early years,
Iwas very interested in cultivating Black collectors and
creating an infrastructure that would enable our community
to support the art being made. Being on Fifty-Seventh Street
provided us with access to Black professionals who worked
in Midtown and had discretionary income. Ivan Karp, who
owned O.K. Harris Gallery, advised me on this when | was a
Rockefeller Fellow at the Met. As part of the fellowship, we
got to meet him and other people working in the arts. At
some point during our visit with him, he stopped the visit and
said to me, “Come with me.” He took me downstairs, and he
began to break down the art world for me. He explained that
artis social thing.

A few years later, when I decided to open the gallery, |
kept hearing white dealers argue that the reason they didn’t
show African American artists was that they would not know

titdla teonete tiryanit eof
Hirdonides te yanity ae tes
afi oxtithi ton opening
Studd Mannion Str Have Ni
snd A. Ronnath Bryant
five, at dunt Above
Fifty-Sovnnth Straat,
