forty with
ese vy ah lactrestablisted araeeer color in their
early to mid-thirties. The “statements known” were by
Jim Dine, Helen
Motherwell,

towed from museums, collectors, and other galleries—
without insurance.” The “statements new” were by
David Hammons, Noah Jemison, Jorge Luis Rodriguez,
and Raymond Saunders, and available for purchase.
Jemison’s loosely painted, colorful watercolors
depicted hybrid figures resembling humans and other
animals (plates 9, 10, 14); Rodriguez's graphite studies
for his Circulos (Circles) steel sculpture series (shown at
JAM earlier that year) diagrammed spheres with various
shapes inside them (see opposite page).?°

Showing Black artists next to their white counter-
Parts pointed out the asymmetry between the two sides
of the color line: Johns’s Hatteras (1963), a lithograph
that features smeared handprints, entered MoMA’s col-
lection the year it was made, while Hammons’s body
prints (plate 8) would not be acquired by the Museum
until 2005 and were often stored in friends’ closets.
This distinction was critical to a pragmatic aspect of the
curatorial conceit: As artist Benny Andrews remarked
in his review, JAM was facing “difficult times,” unable to
“pay the rent, utilities and other operating expenses.""
JAM's “new” statements sold, undoubtedly aided by
being conjoined to those that were already viable.

At the time of the exhibition, Saunders was well-
known for his 1967 essay “Black Is a Color.” In retort
to Ishmael Reed’s Black Arts Movement screed on
the Black artist’s responsibilities published earlier

the same year, Saunders argued instead for a vision
of Black art that need not be molded to a “prescribed

. image.”** Statements Known and Statements New
responded to this two-sided, often male polemic by
proposing a third way: a gallery for Black art could
include non-Black artists, as JAM increasingly would
after this exhibition. Might Johns’s Hatteras—named
after a section of the outer banks of North Carolina
that had served as a refuge for fugitive enslaved peo-
ple during the Civil War—be considered a work of
Black art, or at least a way of acknowledging the value
of Black life as a source for the well-known statements
made by white artists? —TJL

Nov 23- Randy Williams
Dec? Metaphors for Music
Decti- In Recognition »» ©*

DecSt Barbara Chase-Riboud, SI

Suzanne Jackson, Valerie Maynar
Nengudi, Howardena Pindell, Betye
Wendy Wilson

This presentation of works on paper, photographs, and
“small constructions"* by eight women artists from the
United States and Europe was conceived as an anti-
dote to the fact that in contemporary art, as elsewhere,
“the American female, particularly the Black American
female, has not been given her just recognition,”2*
Among the artists being celebrated for their “creative
genius”** was Valerie Maynard, who had, from 1969 to
1974, practiced and taught printmaking at The Studio
Museum in Harlem as a participant in its now-renowned

Lert Invitation to the e
bition Statements Known
Statements Now, 1976

19. Linda Goode Bryant, inter
by Rujeko Hockley, BOMB, Ap:
2019.

20, Barbara Cavaliere, “Statem
Known and Statements New,".
‘News, January 1977, 43-44.

21, Andrews, “JAM Session,” 2

22. Ishmact Reed, “The Black
Artist: Calling a Spade a Spade

Color” (self-pub., 1967), 5.

23, Press release for In Recent
n.d. [1976]. JAM Records, Box
“In Recognition.”

24, Linda Goode Bryant and C
Brokaw (“Guest Co-Ordinator”
form letter announcing In Receg
September 23, 1976. JAM Reco
Box 46, “In Recognition.”

