Acknowledgments

Aust Abov Moun, collborationand ret
‘were the most valuable resource 3 Sustaining the 4
Aaleryover staves yar Lame tn el
acted exbitencoulsnathavecome oceher
without shared oot to bing asthe sear
slanet ots repmaion Weore gatas
indebted alive

stand remot, woscknowledge and cle
curcolibonterLina Goode brane tonees
Ainttorexperinoationanddacoversheries
osabilies of exhbitonmatngat Wehercerng
Modem Art he geveusandourcoluagussoens
tunis to ngage ina love dalogua vith ce
nity ofa and we poreciaethauntche pc
inourabitytocartora hor she us ene
Insp nd chalengesin cur contemporor aoe
‘On behalf of everyone who has worked with hor—at
‘UM MoMA. oreuentore—we eratflinthe
Cte fre thatisinds ode se

extend utmost appecaon tthe at
Inte exhibition and fomerdaMstattaherca
the warkorenceuagd out feaeach stor

hong Cyber Coker Pet Cummings, Chae reel
Dawson, MareyR Edit, Wendy Wardens,
Tom Fneloear, Susan Ftzsinmong Kathe
Gonchar David Hammons, Maren Hessnoe Reine
Hauser Cynthia Hawn AC Hudgins, Noose ae
ViEdgarHeapof bs, lane Olsens seas
aston Water. Jackson Noah omen Fes
Jenison Jeers Nina Ko, elena
Jeane Moutousamy Ate Senga tense
O'Grady, Howarde =e

Fre
soda ends, any,
eon, Bimal Banerjee, Cami io

: Caml Bills, Vivien
Bowne, Matin Cohen, Dan Conchoar, Blonde
Cummings, Peter Feldstein, Howard Fistor
t2ne Foote, Palmer Hayden, Norman Lewis, Freda
Leinwand Rosemary Mayer George Mines,

rence D. “Butch” Morris, Frank P: ker, 8

Frank Parker, Sandra
tigre obert Rauschenbers, Veron Reid Greg tat,

Oreste oi
ts ‘generosity of several gal let
:

lexander
lop& Collection,
ean Kelly Gallery, Krav

PS Gallery Manneken Press,

Srey Ascites htc
ina Family Collection
Collection, Andrew Krey ie

Estate of Rosemary Mayer, Dr. Harold MeDaniel and

Jeanette MeDaniel, Ortuzar Projects, Sandra M. Payne

TWast Michel Rosenfeld Gat
mista Foundation, Craig Robins i
Collection. ae en)
Kindy lent thor wera and eupporedauricsenenst
Addon Galery of American are Philge meas
Governor Nelson A RocketelorEmpie stare ies
Art Collection the Metropolitan Nusounret ka

Museum of Contemporary Art, Chicago; the National

Radel nstute The Studio Musourr ir nesta
yaa ia Museum of Fine Arts. sa!
lends who eciitated esearch vowinor os ng
forthe exhibition, including Valérie Rousseau at
Cordova; Dena Fisher: Amelia Russo and Candice
Kenisha Jones, and Valerie Knew; Ka Grimson
at Craig Robins Collection; Diana. Carey atthe i
Sommers: kim Snyder; Connie Titon; Nancy and”
‘eopest gratitude tolan White and Paulina Alvares,
AtMoMA, our foremost thanks gotoGlennD.
Lowry, The David Rockefeller Director, whose

formed the backbone of this project. We are thank
Ito Christy Thompson, Senior Deputy Director,

Exhibitions and Collections, for approaching each
sment ofthis complex production with openness,
warmth, and a sense of possibilty. We are also grato-
{ulto Stuart Comer, The Lonti Ebers Chief Curator of
Media and Performance, for being our first and last
cheerleader, nourishing us with big ideas and the
day-to-day care needed to make them happen.

This project would not have come to fruition without
Margaret Aldredge-Diamond, Exhibition Manager: her
ability to use the structures at our disposal to respond
tothe exhibition's various needs as well as her exem-
plary empathy were vital. Her colleaguos in Exhibition
Planning and Administration, especially Erik Patton,
Jennifer Cohen, and Sarah Stewart, provided consi
tent support and enthusiasm. Mack Cole-Edelsack,
Senior Design Manager, was our creative partner at
‘every step as we generated concepts for the exhibition
design and then tried to manifest them; his curiosity,
spirit, and humor were contagious. We thank Jessica
Nilsen, Associate Registrar, for her crucial support in

nuring the utmost care of the artwork in our custo-
dianship, and Aaron Harrow, A/V Design Manager, for
his ingenuity in approaching media—an essential com-
ponent ofthis endeavor. Heidi Hirschl Orley, Assistant
Director, Curatorial Affairs; Robert Kaster, Director,
Imaging and Visual Resources; and Stefanii Ruta, Head
Registrar kindly advised us and shared key insights
ateritical moments. James Grooms and Ava Childers
jn General Counsel showed enthusiasm for working
closely with artists, Odessa Roberts Matsubara and
Laura Coppell in Human Resources ensured the proj-
ecthad proper staff support.

The history of improvisation we attempted to re
create would not have been complete without live
performance. For their openness and trust, w
arateful to the colleagues with whom we worked
closely on programming in The Marie-Josée and
Henry Kravis Studio. They include our Media and
Performance coconspirators Ana Janevski, Curator,
‘who has been at our side at every major crisis and
celebration, and the ever-insightful Martha Joseph,
‘Assistant Curator. In Performance and Live Programs,
Lizzie Gorfaine, Paul de Pietro, Kate Scherer, and
livia Rousey brought each performance to fruition
with inspiring dedication. We began this project

1 with Ginny Benson, who sadly passed away
before the exhibition's completion; we miss her and
continue to light a candle to her creative force.

Our colleagues in Media and Performance, with
whom we share a small and collaborative workspace,
Were our backbones, providing meaningful reflection,
administrative support, and a laugh when necessary.
We consider ourselves lucky that we regularly get to
see and learn from Rebecea Kusovitsky, Department
Manager; Chelsea Airey, Executive Assistant Erika
Papernik-Shimizu, Associate Curator; and Gee Wesley,
Curatorial Assistant.

The Chief Curators—Christophe Cherix, Clément
Chéroux, Rajendra Roy, Martino Stieri,and Ann
‘Temkin—provided a foundation for this exhibition and
were ourkey interlocutors at various erossroads in
‘our planning. Thank you to Lesh Dickerman, Director,

h Programs, for creating space for the explo-
ration of ideas, and to curatorial colleagues, past
and present, who offered their invaluable expertise
and love for art and artists: Beverly Adams, Esther
‘Adler, Makayla Balley, Sophie Cavoulacos, Emily
(Cushman, Julia Detchon, Lucy Gallun, Sonja Gandert,
Lily Goldberg, Danielle Jackson, Jordan Jones,

Inés Katzenstein, Sam Kofodimos, Michelle Kuo,
Cara Manes, Sarah Meister, Piper Marshal, Veroni
Molnar, Oluremi Onabanjo, Paulina Pabocha, Carson
Parish, and Lanka Tattersall, who offered her reflec-
tions with depth and spark. Outside MoMA, Nicole
‘Acheampong is an inspiration.

‘We thank our colleagues n the David Booth
‘Conservation Department for their excitement and
curiosity about the wide range of mediums in the
‘exhibition. Peter Oleksik’s patience and thought-
fulness were crucial tothe presentation of archival
‘media works. Lee Ann Daffner, Michael Duffy Tins
March, Annie Wilker, and Lynda Zycherman brought
their expertise to viewings, discussions, and consid-
‘erations of key works.

‘Our colleagues in External Affairs made intuitive
‘connections and built meaningful relationships that
created a financial base for this exhibition. We are
‘grateful to Meagan Johnson, Mallory Lenoir, Maggie
Lyko, Beverly Morgan-Welch, Dore Murphy, Mariana
Salem, and Nora Webb. We are profoundly apprecia-
ive of Amanda Hicks, Meg Montgors, and Sara Beth
‘Walsh in Communications and Public Affairs, who
worked closely with us to communicate the stakes of
the show.

‘On the Creative Team, Kevin Ballon, Claire Corey,
Damien Saatdlian, and Christie Zhong took imagina~
tive risks in coming up withthe graphic sensibility for
the exhibition. We thank Prudence Peiffer and her eol-
leagues Emily Bahret, Isabel Custodio, Hanna Girma,
‘and Alison Knoll for ther enthusiasm for sharing
the exhibition with various audiences. Sarah Cowan,
worked closely with us on editing many ofthe videos
and films that appear both inthe galeries and online.

‘Our colleagues in Learning and Engagement mod-
‘led an approach to curatorial collaboration, which
‘was appropriate given Linda Goode Bryant’ origins
inmuseum education. Sara Bodinson advised on the
‘ral history project and, along with Arlette Hernandez
‘and Orlana Gonzales, offered honest feedback on our
Interpretive materials, encouraging us to make good
‘on our promise to organize a show that was acces-
sible to as many interested audiences as possibl
Jackie Neudorf helped shape the various voices of
the didactic materials nto a unified chorus, Rachell
Morillo worked closely with Adelia Gregory, Brianna
Harlan, and Nisa Mackie to develop public programs:
that aim to make space for the kind of unexpected
‘and riotous debate that flourished at JAM.

We extend deep thanks to the Department of
Archives, Library, and Research Collections led by
Michelle Eligott, who went above and beyond to
‘assure that the Just Above Midtown Gallery Records.
‘were accessible to our team for research and believed.
resolutely in the importance of sharing JAM's history.

