EEE Ee

when she called for the liberation of art in an article
that appeared in a black newspaper based in her home
state (fig. 8). To make an art analogy, when David
Hammons installed a sculpture at JAM made from

the unlikely mixture of eggshells, tea bags, roaches,
feathers, hair, and wire above viewers’ heads and called
it Grey Skies over Harlem (1977; fig. 9), he offered a
grisaille assessment of the landscape in which we con-
tinue to find ourselves. To attempt the impossible task
of changing the weather, one must first behold it, must
feel the air above us.

‘What does transformation feel like? It’s tough to
suss out or mark meaningful change under current
conditions, in which progress narratives are typically
used to retrench the status quo. It’s hard to have
the fights necessary to continue a movement when
polite code words and bureaucratic solutions take the
Place of debate, or if elites with concentrated power
Gncluding myself) are afraid of the kind of disagree-
ment that can also elicit trust and camaraderie. But
we can listen for the whispers of revolution. Tradition
and transformation are false dichotomies within a
black culture that often requires us to reinvent our
ways of knowing, so that we sometimes repeat mis-
takes when denied history’s means of transmitting
proper names. Nevertheless, we have learned how to
the tell stories of the people who have come before.

Over the last four years, Goode Bryant and I
have plotted a lot of ideas for how we might channel
the show’s resources to create an infrastructure with

real-life consequences: catalyze a co-op fund for artists
under JAM’s influence to redistribute for themselves;
create what Goode Bryant has called “The Cube,” a
space where art and agriculture might come together
to sustain the essential needs of the community; or
develop Black Currant 2.0, an app which, like few
other social media platforms, would offer a space for
meaningful debate, for going slow and being quiet.
Each offers a model for how the show could heighten
an unbounded, nomadic, and diffracted institutional-
ity, found at once within and beyond the “contexture”
of a museum of modern art. I trust that just as JAM
conceived proposals that did not come to pass but
nevertheless changed its landscape, inside of this proj-
ect’s failures already lies the occasion for us to come
together and fight for new ideas. Disintegration is not
just a refusal of integration; it is a way of remaining up
in the air, unknowable and responsive.* It’s also a way
of staying alive.

Balbancha and Manahatta, January-May 2022

Thank you to Brandon Eng for your research assistance
and to Maria Marchenkova for your editorial grace; to
Morgan Freed Bassichis, Elaine Marie Carberry, Michelle
Elligott, Malik Gaines, Park McArthur, Sarah Suzuki,
Gameron Rowland, and Andrew Wallace for your advice
on drafts of this essay; and to my collaborators, Marielle
Ingram, Lilia Rocio Taboada, and Linda Goode Bryant.

a.
turing an article about Linda
Goode Bryant, September 22,

F1a. 9 Senga Nengudi, Swing
Low (1977), and David
Hammons, Grey Skies over
Harlem (4977), installed in
an exhibition at Just Above
Midtown, Fifty-Seventh
Street, 1977-79

61. For more on the weather,
atmospheres, blackness, and art,
see Christina Sharpe, In the Wake:
On Blackness and Being (Durham,
NC: Duke University Press, 2016);
and Ellen ¥. Tani, “Darkening
Atmospheres,” Venti: Air,
Atmosphere, Aestheties 1, n0. 1

(all 2020): 77-87.

62, “Could we think of JAM’s twelve
years of operation and three evictions
as a series of planned failures and a
state of permanent temporariness?
‘Might ‘sustenance’ require a series of
shutdowns? Does continued rebuild-
ing necessitate decay? Is one way to
prevent ourselves from falling to keep
fn falling? How long can we stay

in the green room, the back room,
the woodshed? Can we continue t0
rehearse for a performance that won't
come?” Fred Moten, in conversation
with the author, January 18, 2022. T
thank Moten for these questions.
