ATTENTION!1 I
SPECTRE W OMAN

TAN. 4 ¢5°
1432

STECTRE WOMAN
EXHIBIT | INSTALLATION

(¢L UES, SOUNDS, THRILLS, <HILL 5,
AND ReLICs)

OcTOBER 3 unit
HALLOWEEN

of artworks ranging from videotapes to graphics to small
publications are a way for an artist to reach a larger
audience.” The film then returns to artists, gallerists,
curators, and cultural workers discussing the burgeon-
ing art market of the 1980s. Varied educational institu-
tions coveted access to the art-world intel Goode Bryant
sought to share, as seen in purchase receipts from the
US Army Library Program, the Art Center College of Art
and Design in Pasadena, and Rutgers University in New
Jersey, among others. Likewise, in subsequent years,
screenings took place at the Metropolitan Museum of
Art and Los Angeles Contemporary Exhibitions. Talking
head by talking head, tape by tape, Goode Bryant
brought JAM to the masses.*° —LAT

Jan4- Tone Blevins, Ellen Fisher,
venS Mary Schultz
Spectre Woman
Performances, Main Gallery
vane- Randy Williams
van 30

Anosrep Compromised? p 127
Main Gallery

Randy Williams was a glue at JAM. He came up with
the name for the gallery, made benefit prints for it, and
showed there consistently. Appropriately, in the wood-
framed assemblages he presented in this solo exhibi-
tion, he trained his eye on the devices and materials that

hold other objects together—hooks and nails, thread,
spools, and twine. Having committed to go to the art
supply store as little as possible, he instead sourced
the building blocks for his work from his immediate sur-
roundings: the streets of Manhattan, which he has called
his “eye level,’?” and the Metropolitan Museum of Art,
his employer from 1972 to this day, where he obtained
slides in particular. Williams's polymorphous, focused
use of found objects reflected his reception of both Neo-
Dada and early-twentieth-century African American art,
which he had studied at New York University under Hale
Woodruff. His work also benefited from the useful tech-
niques he had learned from family members, including
his grandfather, a carpenter, and his mother, a dress
patternmaker. —TJL

van 9—
Jan 30

Janet Henry
Retroactive pp 128-29
Undercurrents Gallery

Janet Olivia Henry—whose work spans installation,
sculpture, collage, design, beadwork, and photogra-
phy—met Linda Goode Bryant while working as a fellow
at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, a position Goode
Bryant had held previously. Henry would eventually
work at JAM, where she served as Goode Bryant's fre-
quent interlocutor and designed and edited the gal-
lery’s magazine Black Currant. Henry, who was inspired
by JAM's spirit of curiosity and experimentation, has
described the gallery as a place for “artists who just
wanted to follow their minds.”**

Henry purchased toys, dolls, miniatures, and other
objects and materials from mom-and-pop toy stores,
secondhand shops, flea markets, and yard sales around
New York and arranged her finds in miniature vignettes
inspired by her own life, exploring personal belongings’
capacity for storytelling and symbolism.* Retroactive,
Henry’s solo exhibition at JAM, included action figures
positioned in dioramas; dolls, toys, and detritus in clear
plastic encasings hung on the wall; and juju boxes that
functioned as microcosms of memories and memora-
bilia. Each object or tableau formed a distinctive piece
of a larger whole. Treating dolls and figurines as proxies,
Henry reimagined her world, gesturing toward the intri-
cacies of a life complicated by the implications of race,
gender, migration, and occupation while maintaining
an ethos of play. In the diorama The Studio Visit (1982;
plate 69), for example, a Black woman artist converses
with a white woman curator, the former cocking her
head to the side as she watches the latter hold a frame
to her face. The scene captures the absurdity and the
difficulty of engaging with the predominantly white art
world as a Black artist. Ritual (1982-83), which features
a Black woman outfitted in a yellow robe and slippers,
surrounded by foliage and enjoying a moment of respite,
emphasizes how important—and rare—it is for Black
women to find space for rest and care. —Yk

Barry Yourgrau and
Chuck Rosenberg
Poetry reading

van 14

Lert Flyer for Tone Blevins,
Ellen Fisher, and Mary
Schultz's performance
Spectre Woman, 1982

36. Goode Bryant and Froese shot in-
teeviewees in the “talking head” style
typical of news shows. This television
trope inspired the name of the band
‘Talking Heads, led by David Byrne,
whose songs “Artists Only” and
“Burning Down the House” feature
in the soundtrack for Tie Busines of
Being an Arcs.

37. Randy Williams, conversation with
the author, October 1, 2021.

38, Janet Olivia Henry, interview by
Thomas (T.) Jean Lax and Lilia Rocio
‘Taboada, June 10, 2021. Just Above
‘Midtown Gallery oral history project,
transcript, Department of Media

and Performance, The Museum of
‘Modern Art, NewYork,

39. For more on how Henry devel-
oped this format, and on her practice
and career more generally, see “Oral
History Project: Janet Olivia Henry
and Sana Musasama,” BOMB,
‘September 18, 2019.
