David Hammons
Greasy Bags and Barbeque Bones

Body Print-In held in conjunction
with the exhibition on May 19

May 5—
May 31

There was a buzz around David Hammons's first solo
show in New York, which JAM's press release promised
would be an “astounding” and “most exciting visual
presentation.”® Shortly before the exhibition opened,
the artist informed Linda Goode Bryant that he would
not be showing his body prints—the works that had first
attracted her attention and were already being collected
by major West Coast museums. Instead, he would pre-
miere new work made by staining shopping bags with
vegetable oil and pork grease, as well as sculptures in
which kinky black hair was affixed to wire in ornamental
patterns. At the exhibition's opening, several painters
were outraged by what they saw as Hammons’s icon-
oclastic materials—sourced from Black barbershops
and supermarkets rather than an art supply store—and
a spirited debate about their artistic validity ensued.”
Critique and love lived in the same space at JAM—both
often sparked by Hammons'‘s example.

In an essay intended for distribution at the exhibi-
tion, titled “In the Land of Dixie Peach,” Metropolitan
Museum curator Lowery Stokes Sims compared the
brown paper bags to the Color Field paintings made in
New York during the 1950s and ‘60s. Hammons like-
wise connected his new work to abstract painting of
the postwar period: “The spots from the grease of the

David Hammons

GREASY BAGS &
BARBEQUE BONES

=a
MAY 5-MAY 31
Opening May5,1975 5~8PM

ribs on bags reminded me of ‘drip’ paintings,”"* which
were created using a method that prioritized improvi-
sation, gravity, and freedom of movement. There were
links to earlier moments in modernism as well. The fan-
ning cascade of grease-stained bags that makes up
Bag Lady in Flight (1975), for example, echoed Marcel
Duchamp’s Nude Descending a Staircase (No.2) (1912).
Like Duchamp, Hammons attempted to depict motion
in astill picture, but he transposed the visual flow onto
an allegorical female figure walking down a South Los
Angeles street. While Hammons‘s works referenced
the cosmos of high art, they were also resolutely earth-
bound. Across the bottom of Bag Lady is a warning,
printed by the supermarket chain from which Hammons
sourced the bag: “We are ecology minded. This bag will
self-destruct in Mother Earth!”

Goode Bryant satisfied her desire for new body
prints by staging a Print-In during the exhibition run, a
riff on the sit-ins, teach-ins, and love-ins popular at the
time. The event was billed as a “mutually involved . . .
common activity,” an opportunity for participants to
create—with Hammons’s assistance—their own prints,”
which might serve as gifts for loved ones in a period of
“recession, depression, and general lack of no money in
the pocket."*) —TJL

oppostTe LSSims [Lowery Stoke:
Sims], “In tho Land of Dixie
Peach.” Text written for
David Hammons's exhibition
Bags and Barbeque
1975

LEFT, ToP Aho sorToN Invitation
(recto and verso) to David

Hammons"s exhibition Greasy
Bags and Barbeque Bones, 197

BELOW David Hammons (left)
and Suzette Wright (center)
at the Body Print-In held in

conjunction with Hamnons’s
exhibition Greasy Bags and
Barbeque Bon

Yenawine’s home, 1975.
Photograph by Jeff Morgan

pp. 34-35 Body Print-In held
in conjunction with David
Hammons's exhibition Greasy
Bags and Barbeque Bor

Philip Yenowine's hou:
Photograph by Jeff Morgan

9. Press release for Greary Bags
‘and Barbeque Bones, n.d. (1975).
JAM Records, Box 4, “David

10. Linda Goode Bryant, “Can JAM
Be JAM at MoMA? A Conversation
between Linda Goode Bryant and
‘Thelma Golden,” on page 15 of this
volume.

H1. LSSims [Lowery Stokes Sims],
“In the Land of Dixie Peach,” 1975.

in “Can JAM Be JAM at MoMA?,”
BAS.
12, (David Hammons}, “Career
‘Narrative: David Hammons,” 1982,
JAM Records, Box 44, “David
‘Hammons: Guggenheim Fellowship
Application.”
13, Press release for Body Print-In
held in conjunction with Greasy
‘Bags and Barbeque Bones, n.d. (1975).
Box 44, “David

14. “Magazine Proposal (Rough),”
n.d. JAM Records, Box 44, “David
Hammons: Guggenheim Fellowship
Application,”
