Outlaw Aesthetics pp 116-18

Cathryn Arcomano, Cathey Billian,
Willie Birch, Houston Conwill, Shelley
Susan Fitzsimmons, David Hammons,
. Harris and Judith Stiles, Maren
Hassinger, Cynthia Hawkins, Roni Hoffman,
Lorraine O'Grady, Sandra Payne, Dave
Pentecost, Jorge Luis Rodriguez, Susan
Schwalb, Lyn Tiefenbacher, Maryam Zafar

Lorraine O'Grady appeared at the opening for this exhi-
bition wearing a tiara, a cape and a gown made from
180 pairs of white gloves, and a sash reading “Mlle
Bourgeoise Noire 1955.” This was the grand debut of the
alter ego O'Grady had created in response to the exhibi-
tion Afro-American Abstraction, held at PS1 earlier in the
year, whose contents she had found too timid—“art with
white gloves on.”* Many of the artists in that show exhib-
ited at JAM, and O'Grady, who soon started volunteering
at the gallery, got to know them. “! wanted to tell them
what Id felt,” she later recalled, “but in an artistic way."?
And that’s what she did on this evening, handing flow-
ers to the crowd, then lashing herself with a whip and
reciting a poem: “That's enough! No more boot-licking.
... Black art must take more risks!” The beauty queen
rose again the following year at the opening of the New
Museum's exhibition Persona, which featured the work
of nine contemporary artists—all white—who assumed
alter egos or personae “as vehicles for greater freedom
of expression.”* Excluded from the artist list, O'Grady
seized “freedom of expression” on her own terms. On
this occasion, the poem's punchline was “Now is the
time for an invasion!”* —LR

Sep6- Sydney Blum/Barbara Tebbetts p 134
‘Sop 27

oct4- Dialogues pp 119-21

Nov 1

Charles Abramson, Chris Checkler,
Martin Cohen, Rafael Colén Morales,
Eve Eisenstadt, Thom Farmer, Shirley
Gorelick, David Hammons, Edgar Heap of
Birds, Donna Henes, James Hill, Wopo
Holup, Laurace James, G. Peter Jemison,
Alan Kikuchi-Yngojo, Louise Kramer,
Laura Marquez, Rosemary Mayer, Tyrone
Mitchell, Linda Nishio, Kevin Noble,
John Obuck, Gerald Pryor, Elaine Rosner,
Peter Schira, Kathy Sokolnikoff, Rose
Viggiano, Randy Williams, John Woo

Performances: Sari Dienes, Julius
Eastman, Lonetta Gaines, Mary Ann
Gillies, Garrett List, John Malpede,
Lorraine O'Grady, Robert Ortiz-Melendez,
Rolando Pefia, Maria Antoinette Rodgers
nd, Stewart Sherman, Theodora

Swann, Theodora E. Yoshikami, Paul
Zelevansky

Organized in collaboration with A.I.R.
American Indian Community House
Artists Space, Basement Workshop, Cayman
Gallery, Cinque Gallery, Creative Time,
the Drawing Center, El Grupo Morivivi,
Franklin Furnace, Interart Gallery, the
Kitchen Center, New Museum, Soho 20

The press release heralded a “historic event”: “For the
first time, 15 alternative spaces will be exhibiting joint-
ly."* These alternative art venues and community orga-
nizations collaborated to present a show featuring
twenty-nine visual artists and sixteen performances
‘spread over four evenings. The program featured a ris-
ing generation of makers and thinkers including David
Hammons, Charles Abramson, Rafael Colén Morales,
Rolando Peja, Edgar Heap of Birds, Sari Dienes, Julius
Eastman, and Lorraine O'Grady,

Dialogues, the release continued, sought to “pro-
vide... an occasion to examine the new set of questions

oprostTe Flyer advertising

JAM'S move to 178-80 Franklin
1980. Designed by
Janet Olivia Henry

ABOVE View of the exhibition
Outlaw Aesthetics, 1980

BELOW Rosemary Mayer assem-
bling her work October Ghost

performance synopsis, 2007,
‘hurps:/lorraineogrady.com/art)
rlle-bourgeoise-noire!.

4. Persona exhibition page, New
Museum Digital Archive, himps://ar-
chive.newmuseum.org/exhibitions/43.
5. O'Grady, Mile Bourgsoise Noire
performance synopsis.

6, Press release for Dialogues,
‘September 15, 1980, JAM Records,
Box 40, “Dialogues Catalog.”
