JAM’s massive SoHo home by opening its skylights
and subdividing its lofted space. (She subsequently
rented the individual units to small art businesses and
for artist studios, illegally according to the IRS, which
would bring a complaint against her before she was
evicted for the third and last time.) In adapting each
space to her aesthetic needs, Goode Bryant was not
simply forecasting the winds of gentrification. Through
Linda, one had a great sense of the vagaries of real estate
value at different times. That was part of the performance of
JAM—Pplaying the real estate game (Lowery Stokes Sims).

‘Unable to purchase any of the buildings in which
it made its home, JAM made debt the ground zero of
its business model. Rather than title, it ran on bank
and personal loans, credit cards, and presales of art-
works and books, some of which never materialized.
Goode Bryant deferred payments on operational costs
like heat, electricity, and phone bills by negotiating
with bill collectors and taking out new credit cards,
gladly welcoming her ability to pay the interest without
paying down the principal. (Ironically, Goode Bryant
also used the gallery’s status to confer credit worthi-
ness on artists the gallery showed, as when she wrote
a letter of support for Senga Nengudi’s application
to American Express.) A similar principle of defer-
ral operated for staff members when the gallery first
opened. Wé weren’t paid a set amount. You'd get to the
weekend, and I remember thinking, “I need to get paid.”
Tf you got paid, it might be one hundred dollars. It would
be like an as-needed thing (Pat Cummings). Others have
described the remuneration during those years in
starker terms: She never paid any of us....We kind of
aid her (Horace Brockington).

Models for raising capital varied over the gallery’s
twelve-year existence. Before JAM opened, Goode
Bryant received a one-time influx of two thousand
dollars cash from her parents, Floyd and Josephine
Goode, who would continue to give the gallery loans
in times of emergency, In a solicitation letter to other
family members, Goode Bryant offered them gradu-
ated returns on their investment; without the means
to finance the operation, none of them bought in. The
gallery sold art, catalogues, and slides, but sales were
only ever a partial source of earned income. Artist and
creative friends offered personal loans and gifts, the
‘two sometimes indistinguishable. After the organiza-
tion applied for and was awarded nonprofit status in

1975, it qualified for government support.®* It could
also receive funding from foundations, including the
same Rockefeller Foundation that had financed Goode
Bryant's fellowship at the Met. In a letter Petition-

ing the foundation’s program officer, Goode Bryant
wrote, “It is miraculous that this gallery can still open
the doors and provide exhibitions to the public, This
period has been a lengthy and exhausting one, For

all concerned can see the accomplishments that were
achieved with a budget of zero,”

The gallery held event-based fundraisers and
sold memberships, which it advertised as emphasizing
“an interplay between you and the artists.”2” Goode
Bryant was also able to secure corporate grants from
CBS, arts funders Exxon and Mobil Oil, and Con
Edison, although the gallery was often late on its utility
payments to the company. Perhaps the most mean-
ingful form of investment was volunteerism: quiches
prepared by Faythe Weaver for Brunch with JAM (see
Chronology, p. 36), supplies provided to build out the
spaces, childcare for Goode Bryant’s two young kids.
Most of what today’s nonprofits classify as donations
went undocumented in the gallery’s financial records,
as is usually the case for forms of debt that neither
party expects to be repaid.

The threat of debt is no stranger to folks of color.
The history of lending as a means of dispossession
in the Americas extends from unconstrained mortgage
foreclosures on Indigenous land during the English
colonial period and the “external debt” imposed on
Haiti by France and later the United States as ransom
after the defeat of slavery and colonialism;7* to
New York City’s 1975 debt crisis, which was partially
caused by the decrease in tax revenue due to white
flight, and which eventually led to the firing of
thousands of public workers, the majority of whom
were people of color; to the 2008 subprime mortgage
crisis, which was triggered by, among other things,
black and Latinx home buyers being lent money at
exorbitant interest rates precisely because they would
not be able to pay it back.*° Anthropologist David
Graeber has argued that while forms of obligation
have always structured economic relations, the advent
of money made them quantifiable through debt—an
asymmetrical relationship in which creditors are able
to prey on those with less power, including those seek-
ing home ownership without claims of land and title."
Insidiously, the false promise of rootedness became
the tether to indebtedness.

JAM embraced debt—both as an economic
necessity and as a value. In The Undercommons, Stefano
Harney and Fred Moten offer a new valuation of this
denigrated term: “Credit only runs one way. Debt is
mutual.”??Indebtedness—not to a financial institution
but to friends, colleagues, and family members—
necessitated ongoing commitments and relationships
built on reciprocity and duration.»? This kind of
indebtedness explains why volunteers worked at the
gallery in its early years in exchange for having a base
for the struggle they would wage at their day jobs. This
kind of indebtedness clarifies how the gallery could
establish a market for an artist like David Hammons,
who would then sell a benefit print that would keep the
gallery going. It can’t be quantified on a balance sheet,
but it works through a logic of “bad debt”: “debt that
cannot be repaid, incalculable debt, debt broken from.
credit, debt as its own principle.”

23. Goode Bryant, letter to,
Express, August 2, 1976.JAM
Records, Box 31, "Senga Nengudi”
‘Women had only recently been
‘granted the legal right to obtain credit
cards in their own names,

24. Goode Bryant letter to family
members, November 2, 1976. Goode
Bryant's personal archive,

25. Government agencies from
which JAM secured support include
the Department of Cultural Affairs
(DCA), the National Endowment for
the Arts (NEA), and the New York
‘State Council on the Arts (NYSCA),

26. Goode Bryant letter to Howard
Klein, March 9, 1976, Rockefeller
Foundation records, Record Group
1.9 (Projects), Series 200R United
‘States—Arts and Humanities) Box
R2060, “Just Above Midtown," 1976,

27. Membership form, nid. JAM
Records, Box 52, “Individual
Fundraising Membership Non
Current.”

28, K-Sue Park, “Money, Mortgages,
‘and the Conquest of America”
Law and Social Inguiry 41, no, 4 (Fall
2016): 1006-35; and Gusti-Klara
Gaillard-Pouchet, “Dit eksteryé™
[Foreign debi}, Radio Haiti audio
recording, 1990, hitpsi/irepository
.duke,edwaclradiohaiti/
RL10059-RR-0664 01,

29. For more on the ongoing impact
‘of New York City’s debt on the po-
litical imagination, see Kim Phllpt-
Fein, “Lessons from the Great Default
Crisis of 1975," The Nation, October
16, 2013.

30. Paula Chakravartty and Denise
Ferreira da Silva, “Accumulation,
Dispossession, and Debt: The Racial
Logic of Global Capitalism—An
Introduction,” in "Race, Empire, nd
the Crisis of the Subprime," special
issue, American Quarterly 64, n0.3
(September 2012): 361-85.

31, David Graeber, Debt-The Fint
5,000 Years (New York: Melville
House, 2011), 376.

32. Stefano Harney and Fred
‘Moten, The Undercommons: Fugitive
Planning and Black Study (Wivenhoe!
New York/ Port Watson: Minor
‘Compositions, 2013), 61.

33, Jessica Horton, discussion with
‘MoMA staff organized by Leah
Dickerman as part of Idea Lab,
October 2021.

34, Moten and Harney, The
Undercommons, 61.

