A HAPPY WOMAN

A193 /$d

FIG. 5

by post-independence opportunities for exposure

to West African culture through transnational festivals
and art historical conferences. There were also the social
events at JAM, including Candida Alvarez and Dawoud
Bey’s wedding ceremony, modeled on a Yoruba marriage
ceremony with dancers and drumming.

The recourse to spirit also emerged from local
needs and conditions. Nengudi made Air Propo at a
time when there were so many people dying in New York
(Senga Nengudi). We were in the middle of it. I remember
watching people walk through Tribeca one day, and the
next they just suddenly weren’t (Tony Whitfield). While
Nengudi and Whitfield described the precariousness
for queer people during the AIDS crisis, prema-
ture death was a condition for many. Too many of the
black men who showed at JAM died young (Kathleen
Goncharov): Charles Abramson at forty-three in 1988,
George Mingo at forty-six in 1996.

Is caring for and about art synonymous with pre-
paring to keep the dead close?** Just Above Midtown:
Changing Spaces is a rickety reenactment, an exhibition
about what happened between nearly 150 exhibitions.
Itis not an attempt to re-create installations with
exactitude, but rather to give observable shape to the
conditions that formed JAM and are still present today,
and, in the process, to make this history available for
others to reconstruct for themselves. How might the
act of recontextualizing the gallery at MoMA reveal
something in the air, unsaid but everywhere present? If
you take for granted the queer, romantic idea that life
is an artwork, JAM can be approached as a durational
conceptual work of art, imagined and materialized,
incomplete and coming into focus. Another yersion of
our show could have involved leaving the gallery walls
blank apart from the titles of JAM’s group exhibitions
and publications—In Recognition, Contextures, The Process

as Art—as prompts for visitors’ collective responses.
But before we could create a new public, we had to
take account of JAM’s publics through the relationships
forged, fought for, and (mostly) kept up.”

Stories of relationships can be gleaned from
pictures, enacted by works of art, and dramatized by
archival materials. Together, they testify to the vivac-
ity and livelihoods that Goode Bryant and the gallery
made possible, In a note from 1977, Nengudi wrote,
“Linda I’m so glad we have a new base for the strug-
gle. Your perseverance is paying off. Take care... and
if there is anything I could do for you out here let me
know. Thanks for being born.” At the top of a 1980
letter artist Sandra Payne sent to Goode Bryant, she
included a photograph of herself captioned, “A Happy
Woman” (fig. 5). Below it, she wrote, “Dear Linda, I
just received a letter with an enclosed check. Thanks so
much for your letter of recommendation—I can now
breath again—Hope to hear from you soon—Toodle-
loo—Love Sandra."

Linda and I decided that we didn’t want to col-
lectivize Marina Abramovié’s 2010 retrospective The
Artist Is Present, in which the artist sat in MoMA’s
Atrium for the duration of the exhibition. (In this
unrealized version, which reconstructs what artist
Lorraine O’Grady called the “dysfunctional family” or
“clubhouse model,”*° Linda is in her windowless office,
as many visitors would have found her back in the day,
surrounded by Kathleen Goncharov, Fred Wilson, and
other artists, writing grants and instigating debates.)
Instead, we placed our trust in telling a story through
artworks—beautiful and beautifully weird—contex-
tualized by the videos Linda shot as well as historical
materials like bills and family photos. Framed on the
wall like the works of art they are, these memory aides
give flesh to the relations between people who hung
out at JAM. When we asked AC Hudgins how we
might re-create the gallery as a character, he suggested,
Buy some cheap wine, get some herb, play some music.
Years ago, David Hammons proposed an even simpler
gesture: “Linda never paid the electric bills; just turn
off the lights.” ** Playing music and playing in the dark
are also elegiac ways of summoning those who have
gone before, too many of whom have transitioned
during the life of this exhibition’s preparation. This
retrospective exhibition is a memorial avant la lettre,
an occasion to give people their flowers while they are
present. It is also a way of emphatically asserting that
while JAM closed its doors, it continues to exert a
spectral force in the present, refusing to be preserved
in amber.

In the second issue of B Culture—the three-issue
magazine JAM published between 1986 and °87 (see
Chronology, p. 155)—the late editor and music critic
Greg Tate trained his eye on the New World variants
of Yoruba religion that were “as much a part of Harlem
life as the crackhouse.”* “If we want to talk about

Fic. 5 Photograph of Sandi
Payne on a letter from Pay
to Linda Goode Bryant,
February 23, 1980

46. I’ve altways been about this dea
thing... . 1 as looking through m
papers, and in junior high school, th
said what each perion would be tche
they grew up, and mine tas @ mort
(Senga Nengudi)

47, I've benefited from the art
historical and social context set b
previous exhibitions, including K
Jones's Now Dig This! Art and Bla
Los Angeles, 1960-1980 (Hammer
Muscum, Los Angeles, 2012); Rt
Hockley and Catherine Morris's
Wanted a Revolution: Black Radicé
Women, 1965-85 (Brooklyn Muse
2017); and Zoé Whitley and Mar
Godfrey's Sou! of a Nation: Artin
Age of Black Power (Tate Modem,
London, 2017).

48. Senga Nengudi, letter to Lind
Goode Bryant, March 10, 1980. J
Records, Box 57, “Senga Nengud

49. Sandra Payne, letter to Linda
Goode Bryant, February 23, 1980
JAM Records, Box 57, “Sandra
Payne.”

50. Lorraine O'Grady, “Rivers an
Just Above Midtown,” first presen
at the Now Dig This! symposium
at The Museum of Modern Art or
February 8, 2013. Available on th
artist's website, htp:/lorraineogra
‘com/wp-content/uploads/2015/11/
Lorraine-OGrady_Rivers-and-Just
Above-Midrown-Alexander-Gray-
catalog pdf.

51. David Hammons, conversatio:
with Thelma Golden, c. 2012, as
recounted to the author by Golder
Hammons’s invocation rhymes wi
his 2003 work Concerto in Black ar
‘Biue, in which the lights at New
‘York's Ace Gallery were turned
off, as well as with Toni Morrison

Imagination (New York: Vintage
Books, 1993).

52. Gregory Tate, “What's the
Difference between Being Black
Being Plastic?” B Culmre 2, no. I
(1986): 3.
