Fra, 2 Stills from video
footage in the JAM Records.
‘Top: Randy Williams,
Marquita Pool-Eckert, and
4d Hammons with Jorge
Luis Rodriguez's Circulo
con cuatro esquinas (Circle
with Four Corners) (1976),
4n Rodriguez's exhibi-
tion Circulos, Just Above
Midtown, Fifty-Seventh
Streot, 1976. Bottom
Howardena Pindell in

studio, c, late 1970s

69 — Wintneair

the past as a prologue to our present, to demonstrate
that the supposed newness of the desire for black art in
the United States is a symptom of whitewashing, and
to describe an alternative model to desegregation that
has already been realized, just above Midtown.

Through this account, told from both within and
beyond the time of JAM’s existence, an emotionally
honest view of a conceptual space that began as a 724-
square-foot gallery with a parquet floor and potted
plants might emerge. In this tight space, it was possible
to envision an entire universe—and then set about
building it. At once miniature and maximalist, this is
a story of believing that through our creativity we can
take on our most intractable social problems.

contexture/ken'teks,(t)SHer/n
1. the fact or manner of being woven or
assembled to form a connected whole

2. amass of things interwoven together;
a fabric

3. the putting together of words and
sentences (or artworks and exhibitions)
into a connected composition; a
continuous text

4, collaboration as a form of
desegregation, and disintegration

In their 1978 publication Contextures (see Chronology,
p. 40), Goode Bryant and art historian Marcy S. Philips
described the artists associated with their neologism
as first “determining and clarifying the inherent prop-
erties of art” and then going outside art’s margins “in
order to incorporate it within the context of external
phenomena.”!* They argued that, for Contexturalists,
“the marginal elements will maintain their nature and
integrity throughout this incorporation.” Diagnose
what lies within the frame, bring what sits beyond it
into the frame, maintain the integrity of the margins.
This paradoxical set of operations would function as
a decoder for the gallery’s ethos.

From the gallery’s first exhibition, Synthesis (1974)

(see Chronology, p. 29), which featured abstract

and figurative art, JAM telegraphed its ability to hold
contradiction. As its program ensued, it continued

to conjoin the work of artists rarely shown together and
ideas imagined to be in tension: selftaught artists

with those who had trained formally; art made as locally

as inside the gallery with that made in California,
Jamaica, and South Africa; new media like video and
performance art that innovated ritual and tradition.
It presented the work of figures who refused the
dichotomy between positive and negative imagery,
including Palmer Hayden, who resignified caricatural
depictions of black people into romantic genre scenes
(see Chronology, p. 38). While JAM organized the
first New York solo shows of many artists who would

9. This mode of collective storytelling
is indebted to JAM artists like Kaylynn
Sullivan TwoTtees, who used this
method in her homage to Zora Neale
Hurston in her performance And He
Had Six Sisters (1984), a5 well as re~
cent black feminist narrative practices
committed to the minor, including
Saidiya Hartman, Winzwand Lives,
Beautiful Experiments: Itimace Histories
of Social Upheaval (New York: W.W.
Norton, 2019), and Sarah M. Broom,
TheYillow House (New York: Grove
Press, 2019). It also takes after oral
historian Svetlana Kitto's approach to
contextualizing black entrepreneur and
assemblagist Sara Penn in Sera Penn's
j-An Oral History Sourcebook
(New York: SculprureCenter and New
York Consolidated, 2021), as well as
the oral histories Adrienne Edwards,
Danielle A. Jackson, and I prepared
for Modern Dance: Ralph Lemon (New
‘York: The Museum of Modern Art,
2016).

10. Thanks to Goode Bryant, her
childhood friend Susan Bateman, and
AC Hudgins for their custodianship of
the archive over nearly forty years.

11. The first three definitions of
“contexture” listed here are based on
Google's English dictionary, which is
provided by Oxford Languages.

12. Linda Goode Bryant and Marcy
S. Philips, Conterrures (New York: Just
Above Midtown, 1978), 39.

13. Goode Bryant and Philips,
Contextures, 39.

