Roni Hoffman

Nov 8-
Nv 2 Ragation Sunday
pee Maren Hassinger

wns Beach

Just Above Midtown’s move to Franklin Street facili-
tated another transition: as the gallery’s square foot-
age grew, So did its ambitions for presenting Itistalla-
tion and performance. For this show, Which Was her
first solo exhibition, Maren Hassinger created Beach, a
room-size installation." Composed of wooden dowels
anchored in mounds of painted plaster and sand, the
work appeared to dance across the floor despite being
firmly rooted. Sprouting at various angles, the reed-
like forms all flowed in the same direction, as If a strong,
wind had swept through the gallery. The sculptures
were arranged in organic clusters, prompting viewers
to meander between them in order to experience the
work, and the space, in its entirety. As Lorraine O'Grady
remarked in the exhibition's press release, Beach cap-
tured “the polarity of ‘movement/rest,”” transforming
the gallery into a natural refuge."*

This work resembled one that Hassinger had cre-
ated over the summer for Creative Time's Art on the
Beach 2, an initiative that brought site-specific installa-
tions and performances to the undeveloped beachfront
at Battery Park City, in Lower Manhattan. In response to
the saplings that she saw blowing in the breeze at this
location, Hassinger planted undulating wire ropes in
the sand, tilting them in the direction of the wind. Both
organic and industrial, Forest gestured simultaneously
toward the natural elements of the site and the man-
made skyline that rose behind it. Rather than perma-
nently alter the environment, Hassinger’s temporary
installation was completed by it—reflecting a process
that lives at the intersection of dissonant forces, harmo-
nizing the spaces her work inhabits.

For Outlaw Aesthetics, the first group show held at
JAM on Franklin Street, Hassinger created Palmettos
(1980; plate 46), which consisted of delicate, partially
unraveled pieces of wire rope resembling palms or dan-
delion seeds. Palmettos seemed to drift across the wall;
propelling itself by the parallelograms of negative space
between each component. With its repetitive uniformity
andits intrinsic relationship to its environment, the work
maintained what Linda Goode Bryant referred to as a
“balanced union with space.”"*

A trained dancer, Hassinger incorporates embed:
ied knowledge into her sculptures as well as her perfor
mances. Still Wind (1981), which the artist performed at
New York’s Stilwende club during a benefit for the JAM
exhibition Crossovers, unified her practices acrogs dis:
ciplines. Hassinger and her dance partner stretched and
leaned, moving ina slow rhythm that emulated the “pare:
do-kinetic quality” of her wire-rope medium. Dressed ly
silver leotards and shimmering silver makeup, the per
formers became vessels in a transcendental dane. iy
which body, object, and space were one, —-ktt

1981

ane Cynticie fewlcine. innutcs Seo

dan 3

In the mic-1S7is, Ooumtna:senwrscayemosencsune-

hatches, Fibonacciges rranarse: irowec wean $2
aes

siso spask Yo Ihuy linpsmss: | SsetepHrSiOse See Sis
Suh 2s the Ghagity Qi resdetvidy, aes Mess Ie SHEE
horkzons with |S aspeeccely
the artworts fRaituest iin téscaihintion of AMe nekiG>

Uns Destuitesh Sees= (ISM sade Tre, Mey
Out CSSD) Daazitee vasd seaiesTiphed by Urese
Tin opaitingt: Cimsee wos ks HORI FSe, ORE
Ay arthQulsd dee OFgaie- ge Des
WASNT, eG.

Amenkgae in, Brack, & Wisite. (& Coley}

fee
be iu aariga, every, Peiday do February 1984
fare — Senge Nengads

rots

Vestine
Bantarmance: Air Prope, with, Chery) Banks.
and. By Fed Nereis

Alp Prope. waa ereatedd as, part of .a series of calladora-
(lana among. artinta working in diferent disciplines, In
Linda Goode, Biryant’s video decumenting the piece,
eampone: and musician Lawreage D. “Butch” Mertis,
ikon Up anddowia a wate en his cornet, Cut to Nengudi,

‘Cyst Holi:
sshubssigan” lanuasy 10-31,

1. JAM Recossin, Bing 57, "Cyatts
Hawiona®
