buckling backward in a gesture of release. I was trying
to become a conduit for something else . . . losing the self
and allowing this other spirit to come through. Nengudi,
Banks-Smith, and Morris were not alone in referenc-
ing spirit at JAM. Houston Conwill’s Notes of a Griot
(1978; plate 31) (see Chronology, p. 40) synthesized
pan-African and invented ritual practices into a group
performance. In his photograph Minimal Mystic
(1982; plate 80), Albert Chong used a long exposure
to picture himself as a hazy “culturally misplaced
shaman”*’ (see Chronology, p. 111). And Rosemary
Mayer's ethereal Ghost sculptures invoked invisible
figural forms draped in glassine and cellophane, which
were disassembled after each display. Across a variety
of cultural references, ancestral and innovated, artists
found recourse in spiritual matters.

“Air is an object held in common . . . that we
come to know through a collective participation within
it as it enters and exits flesh.”* Spiritual practice
dissolves the strict boundaries of individual identity.
David Hammons demonstrated as much in his
approach to making assemblages from found objects.
Follow the itinerary of the used and uncapped glass

bottles of cheap flavored wine he installed in semi-
circles on brick buildings in Harlem (fig. 4): He first
gleaned them because of his interest in objects that “a
black person’s lips have touched.” He brought these
bottles into his studio, where they can be glimpsed as
an artwork in formation in slides in the JAM archive,

FIG. 4 Night Train and
Er

41, Albert Chong, email to Lilia Rocio
‘Tuboada, December 9, 2017,

42. AshonT. Crawley, Blachpentecostal
Breath: The Aesthetics of Possibly
(New York: Fordham University Press,

order to think”

43. David Hammons, interview by
Kellie Jones, 1986. Art Popes, Juyt
August 1988, httpss/ivwwartpapers,
org/interview-david-hammons/.

44, Robert Farris Thompson, Fash ef
the Spirit: African and Afrondmercon
Art anid Philosophy (New York: Vintage
‘Books; 1983), 13.

45. Thompson, Flash of the Spiri, 9.

Later, the work they became was purchased by JAM.
volunteer and collector AC Hudgins, who would even-
tually give it to MoMA. Each custodian is a transfer
station in the making of the work now titled Untitled
(Night Train) (1989). Robert Farris Thompson, the
Africanist art historian and a friend of Hammons,
described the act of “opening the [bottle] cap” as “a
sign of generosity of response”**—a way of creating,
in this case, a relay of the “numinous flowing force”**
between the body of the artist and that of the viewer.
Hammons gave shape to this generosity in his study
of the everyday techniques for putting things together
that he saw everywhere around him on the streets of
New York, creating an arc by affixing one bottle to
another. Unsigned, the original installation belonged
to all those who might come upon it and wonder.
Spirit is another way of describing a means of carrying
off with the signs of authorship.

When Hammons and other artists were turning
to spiritual practices in the 1970s and 80s, they were
doing so in the context of a wave of Afro-diasporic
contact. Thompson’s scholarship on Yoruba expressive
culture in present-day Nigeria and across the Americas
began to circulate during JAM’s early years and
informed the work of many of the artists who showed
there. This was not only an academic exercise for JAM
artists, many of whom were exposed to Afro-Caribbean
ceremonies in New York through artist Charles Abramson
and others. These specific crossroads were buttressed
