1984
janao JAM evicted from 178-80
Franklin Street

JAM was evicted for the second time for nonpayment
of bills and because noise complaints had been filed
against the gallery. Its staff worked out of an office at
225 Lafayette Street until September, when they relo-
cated to 503 Broadway.

assi-34 Afro-Pop

In 1981 Linda Goode Bryant began planning the exhibi-
tion Afro-American Pop Culture, or Afro-Pop for short.’*
With this show, she sought to expand the gallery’s focus
by presenting Black popular culture's contributions
across a variety of realms, including “dance, humor,
fashion, music, food, environments, performance,
games, church, social clubs and oral diaries.”"* Goode
Bryant wanted to commission new installations by David
Hammons, Senga Nengudi, James Andrew Brown, Randy
Williams, Sandra Payne, and Janet Olivia Henry.”* These
artworks would be shown alongside “artifacts, icons .. .
and symbols" such as “straightening combs and hot curl-
ers, funeral photos and church fans with images of Jesus
or Martin Luther King .. . step charts for popular dances,
rare and out-of-print recordings, [and] dream books."””

Goode Bryant's efforts to highlight Black material
culture in a gallery context intersected with contem-
Poraneous projects like Group Material’s 1981 exhibi-
tion People’s Choice: Arroz con Mango, for which the
collective invited their primarily Latinx neighbors in the
East Village to place objects of personal significance on
display, thereby recontextualizing them as art. For the
JAM project, anthropologist John Langston Gwaltney
was hired to create an audio installation from interviews
with artists and cultural producers on Black culture in the
United States.” There were nearly a dozen performances
planned, from Black fraternity and sorority dances to
a multimedia presentation of Black fashion and beauty
culture. The project’s expanding program led to com-
mensurate cost increases, and JAM staff sought to find
volunteers and in-kind donors. Despite receiving sup-
port from several private and public sources, the gallery
‘was unable to raise the necessary funds, and planning
for the project ceased after spring 1984.

Though it never materialized, Afro-Pop shaped
JAM's trajectory, bringing new collaborators into the
gallery's orbit and emphasizing performance as a strat-
egy for exhibiting Black history. Oversight of the exhi-
bition’s music program was delegated to Greg Tate, a
young music critic. Tate proposed a multipart montage
of twentieth-century Black popular music, Arranged
chronologically, the program would have started with
improvisations based on popular jazz standards, then
moved through Black achievements on the guitar and
saxophone, as well as the contributions of gospel, soul,
scat, and swing. With an eclectic artist list that fea-
tured both intergenerational Afro-pop icons such as
Aretha Franklin and younger groups such as DC punks

Bad Brains, Tate’s multi-genre proposal was a fitting
expression of JAM’s vast ambitions and its continued
commitment to an expansive idea of Black art. Tate
went on to edit the JAM periodical B Culture (see
Chronology, p. 155) and to organize musical perfor-
mances at the gallery. —BE

Lert Sticker created as part
of the planning for the unre-

alized exhibition Afro-Pop,
1983

opposite Members of the
‘Sydney
Blum's residence on Nest
Twonty-Sixth Street and
in an unidentified office

74. "Project Title: Afro-American Pp
Culture: A Mixed: Medi Eaten? ‘
1981, JAM Records, Box 33, "Alto
Pop General.” In gathering infor=
mation about Afro-Pop, Thave relied
primarily on planning documents,
correspondence, flyers, summary. i
reports, and other sources located in

the JAM Records, Box 33, q

75, "This Spring, Just Above Midtown:

76. In line with JAM's emphasis

‘on collaboration, Goode Bryant
initially asked these artists to workin
the following pairs: Hammons and
‘Nengudi, Brown and Williams, Payne.
and Henry.

77. “JAM with Afro-Pop}" 1982, JAM.
Records, Box 33, “Afro-Pop General”

78, Among the toy collections and
family photographs on display was
a welded steel sculpture by Jorge
Luis Rodriguez, who by 1981 had
exhibited at JAM several times. See
Julie Ault, “People's Choice: Armor
‘con Mango,” in Show and Tell
Chronicle of Group Material, ed. Julie
Ault (London: Four Corners Books,
2010), 30-36.

79. John Langston Gwaltney, letter
to Linda Goode Bryant, August 17,
1982. JAM Records, Box 33, "Affe
Pop Oral Diaries.”
