documented a broad creative presence. There was a
fair amount of figuration in this inaugural exhibition,
in the work of New Yorkers Valerie Maynard and Vivian
Browne, for instance. This tendency was also evident
in work by West Coast participants, for example, in
Hammons’s body prints and Concholar’s landscapes.
Goode Bryant's synthesizing vision made space for an
expansive coalition and revealed a broader history of
African American art practice. The inclusion of lyrical
abstractions by Norman Lewis paid respect to an ear-
lier generation of New York-based Black artists, whose
work remained underappreciated even as their activist
spirit persisted.*

50JN}.XO}UO)

For the gallery’s fourth anniversary, in 1978,
Goode Bryant produced not only a signature show but
a book that came to define the art of a generation
(see Chronology, p. 40).° In Contextures (fig. 2), she
traced the parameters of “Contexturalism,” which
she saw in the flexible, noncommercial, and for the most
part nonrepresentational, mixed media, and perfor-
mative practices of Hammons, Senga Nengudi (fig. 3),
Houston Conwill, Maren Hassinger, Howardena
Pindell, and others. As theorized by the gallerist, these
artists used “remains” (inchoate but not completely
indeterminant matter) whose site, margins, or context
defined them as art; engaging the sensate and the sonic
along with ritual action, the Contexturalists imbued
“abstract and conceptual systems with content.”!?

In the summer of 1979 JAM closed its space on
Fifty-Seventh Street. A year later it reopened in the
rawer, hipper arts neighborhood of Tribeca with an
amended moniker, Just Above Midtown/Downtown.
Now with two floors and a significantly larger footprint,
JAM doubled its number of exhibitions, increased
workshops and lectures, and opened its doors to an
ever-widening array of practices and the diversity
that downtown itself represented. Live projects by
Hassinger, Lorraine O’Grady, Kaylynn Sullivan

‘TwoTrees, William Pope (aka Pope.L), Martha Rosler,
and Linda Montano would become indelibly asso-
ciated with the birth of the alternative-space scene.
Events featured musicians such as Steve Reich and
Lawrence D. “Butch” Morris (the latter in collabora-
tion with Nengudi and dancer Cheryl Banks-Smith);
Hammons, dancer Bill T. Jones, and media artist
Philip Mallory Jones created an “Electric Partnership”
(see Chronology, pp. 91 and 108). Houston Conwill

FxQ. 1 Camille Billops at
the exhibition Synthesis,
Just Above Midtown, Fifty.
Soventh Streot, Novesber
1974. Works on the walls,
from Left: Norman Lexis,
No.2 (1973), Vivian Broxne,
For You (1974), Lewis, No.7
(1973), and Suzanne Jackson,
Ornithological Delicatessen
(1973). Works in center,
from left: Camille Billops,
Tho Baby Jesus, Oh See
Him (1973), and Elizabeth
Catlett, Homage to Ky Young
Black Sisters (1968)

FIG. 2 Cover of Linda Goode
Bryant and Marcy S. Philips's
New York:

1d: Senga Nengudi,
Study for Mesh
1977. Photograph
by Adam Avila

FIG. 3 Contact sheet of
portraits of Senga Nengudi
for the book Contextures,
by Linda Goode Bryant and
Marcy 8. Philips, c. 1978.
Photographs by Adam Avila

8, Lewis was among the founders of
the collective Spiral, as was Bearden.
Along with Ernest Crichlow they
also started Cinque Gallery, which
‘began with a $30,000 grant from
the Urban Center at Columbia
University and in lobby space
donated by the Joseph Papp Public
‘Theater, formerly Astor Library it
was housed in that institution for

a decade. Melissa Rachleff, "Do It

Ps

27, 1969, On Spiral see Courtney}
‘Martin, “From the Center: The Spiral
Group, 1963-1966," Nka: Journal of
Contemporary African Art, no. 29 (Fall
2011): 86-98.

9.-The exhibition Contextures'78
was held at the Edward Kennedy
“Duke” Ellington School ofthe Ars
‘Washington, DC, April 7-21, 1978
“The publication Contestures was coat
thored with Marcy S. Philips. Linds
Goode Bryant and Marcy S. Philips,
ontextures (New York: Just Abore
Midtown, 1978),

10, Lowery Stokes Sims, “Synthesis
and Integration in the Work of
Howardena Pindell, 1972-1992:
(Re) Consideration," in Homandens
Pindell: What Remains to Be Seen, exh.
cat. ed. Naomi Beckwith and Valerie
asst Oliver (Chicago: Moseum of
‘Contemporary Art Chicagoj!

‘York: DelMonico Books, 2018), 74.
