Thelma Golden

What prompted the founding of Just Above Midtown in 1974?

Linda Goode Bryant

Frankly, there was a belief that | felt we as a community of Black artists and arts
professionals needed to address. | was running the Education Department at
The Studio Museum in Harlem at the time, which included overseeing the Artist-in-
Residence program there. Other artists visited the residents and inevitably the
conversations turned to discussions about the challenges they faced in trying to
get their work shown because, as they putit, “They won't let us, they won't let
us.” And | found myself saying, “Fuck them. Let's just do it ourselves.”

to Who were “they” in 1974?

198 The whole infrastructure of the established art world:
critics, collectors, galleries, museums, other art spaces,
art historians.

T@ And who were you in 1974?

108 I'm pausing because I'm going to say the first thing that
came to mind. | wasa nationalist. | think I've always beena
Black nationalist. | still am. And what does that mean for me?
Every day, I'm bowled over by the resourcefulness, imagina-
tion, and creativity of Black folk. Wherever there is Black
presence, it’s there. And I’ve always just wanted to be around
that, to be part of that, to support that.

There's so much that we're faced with that can cause us
to doubt ourselves or to think we don’t exist exceptas the
flip side of a black-and-white coin. And | just go, “No, look at
our beauty and amazingness. How can you even doubt that?”
| feel that these days—and I’m ancient now, soit could be
generational—there’s a notion that Black exists in the absence
of white, and that’s bullshit. Black exists in the presence of
Blackness. We exist—what we are, who we are, our power—in
our presence, not in the absence of white folks.

T@ This is one of the most profound aspects of JAM’s origin
story and of your vision. Black institutions—and specifically
Black art institutions—are always seen as in response to. That
crystallized for me during an encounter we had with one

of the many people in our professional world who had recently
discovered the history of our culture and JAM's place within
it. This person kept talking about JAM in relation to what was
happening in galleries or in museumsat that time. And you
very calmly but fiercely said, “This wasn’t a reaction to that.
Itwasa total, complete world and idea unto itself." Itwas
the most profound mental and ideological shift around the
notion of cultural specificity. As someone who has traveled.
through many specifically Black institutions—the Black
church, Spelman College, the Studio Museum—can you talk
about this idea of an autonomous Black space versus a
reactionary one?

108 JAM was an autonomous Black space because it was
about our ideas, our visions, our creativity, the things we
made, the things we felt, the relationships we created that
supported us as individuals and collectively. But when!
think back, it also had to do with the moment, when | wasa
child, that it occurred to me that | was an artist. And there
were probably two things that caused that self-realization.

The first one occurred when | was staying at my paternal
grandmother's house. | noticed that she had a tendency

to. go downstairs into the
kitchen early in the morning.
One morning | heard her get
out of bed and go down-
stairs, and I decided to go
downstairs too. | followed
her and attempted to open
the door. It was locked, and
\hadn‘t remembered it ever
being closed. Then | heard
this noise that sounded like
sand being thrown against
the wall. | lay down on my
stomach and looked under
the door. | could see what looked like a white pit of salt, and

\ could smell vinegar. | called, “Grandma Goode, let mein,

let mein.” But she wouldn't. She was singing. | understood
that there was some magic going on behind that door, and

I wanted to be part of it. Later | processed why she hadn’'tlet
me in. She was Pentecostal. When | came out of the womb,
my parents gave me to her. | was raised in the Pentecostal
Church, which is ritualistic. I'm very much still attached to
that—notthe doctrine but the culture of it. Butinto her
Christianity my grandmother incorporated some rituals she
had learned growing up in South Carolina. Her parents were
slaves, and she was part of the first generation born out of
slavery. That was an awakening for me in terms of creativity
and imagination—

T@ Andalsoa Black specificity. Right?

toa Yes.

7° Because what she was holding was a specific way of being
Black in relation to formalized Black institutional structures.
You then revised that relation for yourself. You stepped away
from the Pentecostal Church for various reasons. You had to
step away from historically Black colleges and universities,
particularly the women’s colleges of that era. You then had to
step away from the Studio Museum of that era. You've often
said you wanted to have a space that would allow for risk and
experimentation. Why was that important?

108 Before | get to that, | need to describe the second thing in
my young life that made me realize | was an artist: Mr. Dillard’s
garage. The Dillards were family friends. | was friends with
their five kids. Mr. Dillard had a garage and, once again, it was
locked. And | was just fascinated by that garage. One day
lasked him, “Can I go into the garage?” And he responded,

orposrTe Linda Goode B
¢. 1974. Photographs
Dwight Cartor

BELOW Linda Goode Bry
ternal grandmother

Go

