In the Land of Dixie Peach

Grease, oil, shine, and slick...words that have a peculer fascination and
preoccupation among Black Americans. Grease, oil, rub, shine. The bane of

all derker Americans was to appear “ashy” - that is, to have visible evidence

of the scaly dryness thet accompanies any situation where the skin is exposed to
“the elements for any length of time. Since this condition was more visibly

evident on their bodies, Black Americans sought to avoid being seen in this

State in public. Daily, as thousands of school children left their homes,

they were inspected by their mothers to make sure they were neat, and !
@reased. Grease was also an important component of the hair straightening

process. It served as a protective shield for the hair shaft against the

Taveges of the hot comb, and served also as the catalyst that resulted

in the end-product-straight, swinging, shining hair, a home-grown version of

the Breck Girl, Long and Silky, etc., etc. of white america. Crinkled hair

just didn't carry the shine like straightened hair!

But grease and oil, while they were important components in the Black American's
life, it was elso his “badge of shame”. The worse sin that this same school child
could commit was to get grease on his homework. It would then be out there. for

all to see - a spot revealing the nitty-gritty of attempting to conform to the
shining, sparkling American Ideal. It also smacked of the worse kind of ethnicity -
it wes about fried chicken, barbeque, fat back, etc., etc., and that was ever

sooo country.

DAVID HAMMONS, in his latest exhibition, GREASY BAGS AND BARBEQUE BONES, at
JUST ABOVE MIDTOWN GALLERY takes this obsession with grease, and raises it to

a level of visual consciousness within the Black experience. Using barbeque bones
end bags with greasy stains, Hammons in the tradition of the dada “founé object”,
and surrealist juxtaposition forces us to look at the refuse of our experience, ~
and see the pecular aesthetic potentialities: patterns that grease: makes, the
special way that grease reacts with porous brown paper. He moves from the “found”
patterns to creating his own in a manner similar to the technique of staining
Cenves with diluted pigments, thereby achieving blotted markings and free-form
Shapes. The multiplicity of forms makes direct reference to mass production, the
Super--super market, shopping bags...shopping bags which have doubled as suitcases,
Gerbage bags; bags into which Blacks have put cotton balls; cotton balls which
resemble balls of cut pre-straightened, pre-processed kinky hair, which is encased
in stocking caps to keep the “'cess”.in place...Cotton Club! Sparkle! Glitter!
Ellington and Beker! Shine, shine on} The entire excercise is carried to another
pertinent sociological plane as the viewer is confronted with the bags, which a
Proudly proclaim on the bottom edge: “We are ecology minded. This bag will self-
destruct in Mother Earth”. Then Hammons! work also becomes a statement, however
intentional or inadvertent, about recycling and ecology. i

This exhibition continues Hammons!’ more familiar grease projects, the Body Print,

® process of oiling the body, and then printing it on paper with baby powder, and
powdered Pignents, dealing again with the imprint of grease on paper, and its
relationship particularly with the Black body. In conjunction with his New York
exhibition, JUS? ABOVE MIDTOWN GALLERY is sponsoring a “Body Print-In" on Monday,
May 19, 1975. The impulse, as explained by gallery director and owner, Linda Bryant,

: eae the public in the creation of a work of art from their own physical

a A viewing of the reality that Hammons presents to'us is essential, even if only

to satisfy your curiosit: ; : . ; ;
4 y. One thing is certain, you may hate it or like it,
but you will not forget it for a long tine...

e LSSims
