into offices and a small gallery. JAM had the physical capacity
topresent dance, performance art, and media and to expand
the number of artists we showed.

10 Talk about some of the exhibitions or performances there
that typified the ethos of JAM at that moment.

tos Experimentation and new works created through collab-
oration by artists who had not previously worked with one
another. A representation of the ethos—atits best and atits
worst—was the collaboration between Bill T. Jones, Philip
Mallory Jones, and David Hammons [see Chronology, p. 108].
That was a hootin so many ways. | believe it was the first time
there was cross-disciplinary collaboration among Black male
artists—and that kind of collaboration was what interested
me. And everything that could happen did happen, and
things I could not have imagined happened. Bill T. Jones:
“Paradiso! Paradiso!” David Hammons: “I’m not saying that.
I'm not saying that.” “David, you have to say ‘Paradiso!’” David
just sits back.

To That's why we wish there was a video of it! There's that
one great photo of Bill on the ground and David, but to imag-
ine what it would have been like . .. In your definition of the
institution, which seems to have carried through the different
locations, was the ability to have space not just for presenta-
tion but for making. In general, collaboration seems to be at
the heart of all of your work. Talk about collaboration as it re-
lates to how you imagine artists working together, or how you
worked with artists, or how you built a sense of community.
108 Wellive in social structures; our society divides every-
thing. We belong to this department or this division. And
what this means for an artist—and I experienced this asa film-
maker more than ever—is that you are often only understood
as conveying something when you're doing so according to
the box you happen to find yourself in.

One of the wonderful things | like about filmmaking are
work-in-progress screenings. When you do them, you need to
create an environment where people are comfortable being
honest. It doesn’t work if people aren't honest. You letthem.
talk. If you're the artist, you fucking don’t talk. Listen to people
who have looked at and engaged in what you're doing, and
find out what you can learn about yourself and about the
work from their feedback. You'll know instantly whether or
not you told the story the way you thought you told the story.

Collaboration for me is the experience of creating
relationships of honesty, which requires a certain level of
trust. It's not about ego, which seems to be more and more
on display these days. A good collaboration happens when
the collaborators are all about the work, not their egos.
Collaboration is key, essential. And you grow, because the
ideas are going “ch-ch-ch-ch-ch!” and that personis bringing
up something that sparks something else that sparks some-
thing else. And the next thing you know, what had been the
core idea is expanding in ways that are far more interesting
than you, as an individual, imagined.

T Collaboration and collective experience. Up until this mo-
ment, when Just Above Midtown has been brought back into
public view, most of us have known it through the collective
memories, the narratives, of the people who were there.

So Franklin Street was the second location, anditledtoa
move to SoHo. What prompted that?

8 The top two floors in our Tribeca building were residential
and owned by two of the building's owners. And why was that
aproblem? Because we did performances at night, and they

anya Bt:

were loud, so they got fed up. They had a meeting and they
voted to terminate our lease. So our landlord said, “You've
gotto move.”

We had an office space for about six months on Lafayette
Streetas | looked for a new place. Manufacturing buildings on
Broadway were starting to be developed into offices and re-
tail spaces. There was this space at 503 Broadway, top floor,
amazing skylights, twenty-five thousand square feet. The
building was mostly being rented to sweatshops. The top
floor was unoccupied. And my God, the rats were as big as
big cats. It was in bad shape. So | was able to negotiate alow
rent compared to other buildings on Broadway at that time.
Te Twenty-five thousand square feet! How did Just Above
Midtown change in that moment?
tow | had this notion that the nextiteration of JAM was going
to have production facilities equivalent toa production
studio, similar to the Astoria or Silvercup film studios, for
two reasons: financial and creative [see Chronology, p.151].
I wanted to provide artists with the opportunity to work
without the burden of exhibiting. At this point it was becom-
ing increasingly clear that the focus for dealers was to court
and seduce Wall Street people into becoming collectors. |
wanted JAM to provide artists with the ability to be creative,
experiment, and just fart if they wanted to fart as a way of
processing what their next thing was going to be. That possi-
bility was being reduced, and it was going to continue to
shrink. | thought perhaps JAM shouldn't be showing work but
should bea laboratory for artists to push their work beyond
its current boundaries. That was the tagline. And to do that,
| wanted to also incorporate all of the new technology
emerging in film, video, animation, and sound,

JAM programs became labs where artists worked for one
or two months in one of two very large open areas. We
provided them with a monthly stipend so they wouldn't have
to simultaneously wait tables or drive a cab or whatever.
And then we turned the other half of the space into artists’
studios and offices for small arts entities and artists to rent.
The goal was to take over the entire building and transform

