‘COMMERCIAL COLLECTION DIVISION

Dun & Bradstreet, Inc.

Sreet Address,

1139 Hylan Boulevard y 4
Staten Island, N.Y. 10305

Mull Address
Box

8
Staten Island, N.

LY. 10314
(212) 442-5200

June 15, 1976
Just Above Midtown
50 W. 57th St.

New York, N.Y. 10019
Att: Linda Brian

Re: Art Forum
$550.00

Surely you didn't intend to break your promise on this long overdue account.
Yet, we have not received the $150.00 promised by May 7th , and your
creditor will not allow any further extension.

As claimant is now planning to take steps to enforce payment, we urge you to

send us your check AT ONCE.

Art Forum
667 Madison Ave,
New York, N.Y. 10021

cece

Sincerely,
AD PA Te CPB epee eee
Accourrr MANAGER

S. Zimme:

COMMERCIAL ACCOUNTS COLLECTED THROUGHOUT THE UNITED STATES AND CANADA

FIG. 3

treatment?” In addition to calls to principle, vendors
made direct appeals. One from Artforum simply reads,
“Please.” The collection agency that followed was less
succinct, writing, “Surely you didn’t intend to break
your promise on this long overdue account” (fig. 3).
‘There were letters from other bill collectors and from
lawyers. Those who gave up on moralism or directness
resorted to false flattery. While many of these hopeful
genuflectors signed their letters “Very truly yours,”
over and again addressing their debtor as “Gentlemen’
and “Sir,” their attempts at reverence reveal just how
little they knew about their addressee.

‘Why would someone who didn’t pay her bills keep
them for a half-century, moving them from one storage
facility to another? As I parsed JAM’s records, I was
filled with both a sense of mounting anxiety and reso-
lute intention amid the chaos. But the balance sheet’s
formalizing of the cascade of notices was of little use.
Tt wasn’t long before the Civil Court of New York
began issuing eviction notices to the gallery. Within a
few weeks of signing the first lease, JAM had stopped

paying its rent. Our landlord would call all the time. The
phone would ring, and I would be like, “I bet that’s Bill
Fudson. You answer.” And whoever else was working would
say, “No, I lied to him last week.” But he was very cool,

he understood. He actually got some of the work. He was
a dreamer and he believed in Linda (AC Hudgins). That
dream lasted for five years until Judson sold his shares
in the building and the gallery was evicted.

As in any good New York real estate story, each
of JAM’s locations—50 West Fifty-Seventh Street,
178-80 Franklin Street, and 503 Broadway—involved
a renovation. In preparation for the gallery’s opening
at Fifty-Seventh Street, Met curator Lowery Stokes
Sims’s brother, a contractor, flew out from San
Francisco to help lay down a parquet floor; a group
of volunteers together learned how to complete the
task. Upon arriving in Tribeca, which at the time was
a mecca for meatpacking businesses, Goode Bryant
solicited friends and the staff of neighboring art spaces
to help destroy the space’s freezer system with a
sledgehammer. Likewise, Goode Bryant transformed

FIs. 3 Past-due b
to Just Above Mid

22.'The documents ci
graph are located in d
Box 84, “Financial St
1974-75."
