me crazy, finding ways, like the conceptualist she is, to
deconstruct the assumptions of what goes into making
a show, even those I saw as unassailable. In addition,
correctly or not, she has asked me to stand in for an
institution with which, like all institutions, I have an
ambivalent relationship. Linda is not my mother just as
Iam not hers, but there is something about giving those
around you the means to at once create and disorder
your life, to both recognize and misconstrue you, that is
in the register of the maternal, biological or constructed.
(This feeling, I am suggesting, goes both ways.)

How do you bear another without insisting that
they be integrated into your model of the world?
Intergenerational collaboration sometimes is a bridge;
it can also be a pier from which only the wind reaches
the other side. Motherhood—which, like other forms
of debt, is at once reciprocal and asymmetrical—can
animate feelings of anger and resentment. It is also
a critical model that distinguishes the black radical
tradition and the history of black-led arts institu-
tions.” Whenever things get tough between the two of
us, Linda uses metaphors for motherhood: “Making
an exhibition together is like making a baby. We’ll be
connected forever.” Because I am a performer, I’ve
come to call the oscillation that emerges here a duet:
a call followed by another call. Linda has asked, “Can
JAM be JAM at MoMA?” to which I ask, “If JAM is
already entangled with MoMA, what do you want
their future to hold?”

To the Present

Lorna Simpson’s collage Linda (For Ursula inaugural
magazine) (2018; fig. 7) juxtaposes two photographs of
Linda Goode Bryant taken by Dwight Carter, an early
JAM supporter, at the time of the gallery’s founding.
In this visual stutter crowned by an aquamarine stain,
Simpson diagrams how the gallery’s work continues

in the present. After closing JAM, in 1986, Goode
Bryant worked in New York City’s budget office before
becoming a documentary filmmaker and subsequently
starting Project EATS, an urban farming initiative
(see Goode Bryant biography, p. 175). But there are
more structural ways in which JAM’s dispersal continues
in the art and culture worlds everywhere around us.
Ata time when many institutions are racing to problem-
solve their histories of exclusion, JAM provides a model
not only of desegregation but also of disintegration:

a refusal to conform to the self-perpetuating norms of
institutional life. Goode Bryant and I have been collab-
orating on Just Above Midtown: Changing Spaces since
the summer of 2018; it is scheduled to open at The
Museum of Modern Art in the fall of 2022. In that in-
terval, the present has continued to unravel. Covid-19,
which attacks the respiratory system, and the war on
black life, which has made “I can’t breathe” a global

FIO. 7

rallying cry, have highlighted our uneven access to air.
This world on fire is separated from the one in which
JAM emerged perhaps only by degrees of intensity.
The loss of life from unmanned combat drones in Iraq
and Afghanistan, extreme weather events, and hyper-
visible forms of state violence are continuous with

the military-industrial complex that spurred the war
in Vietnam, the aerial spraying of pesticides, and the
disruption of black organizations by COINTELPRO.
Resource hoarding, climate apocalypse, and anti-
blackness continue to be interlocking conditions.
Despite the real changes that have occurred in the
intervening years, the same atmosphere persists.

What does this account of JAM’s refusal to pay the
bills and its use of resources like spirit and care make
perceptible? It’s hard to imagine how art can intervene
in the climate catastrophe without first sensing that art
is nature and the environment, the place from which
materials as traditional as pigment or as iconoclastic as
hair are sourced, as necessary to life as a basket of wild
oats, and the ground to which our processions return
the ash and dust of life. Art can’t intervene in the after-
math of the extrajudicial murders of black people if
we don’t first acknowledge that premature death isn’t
a problem of a /ack of representation in visual culture,
but of a hypervisibility circulated through surveillance
technologies that might require the performance of
subterfuge. And art can’t address resource hoarding
if we don’t first recognize that museum collections
often enclose art in “musty-dank-but-spotless” environ-
ments, as Goode Bryant recognized at age twenty-three

59. For more on mothers within th
black radical tradition, see Horten
J. Spillers, “Mama’s Baby, Papa's
‘Maybe: An American Grammar
Book,” Diaenis 17, no. 2 (Summ
1987): 64-81. For a discussion of
relationship of Spilles's framewor!
to art history, see Huey Copeland,
Touched by the Mother: On Black M
the Aesthetic Field, and Other Femin
Horizons, 1966-2016 (University o
(Chicago Press: forthcoming). See 2
writing by Rizvana Bradley, Saidiy
Harman, Zakiyyah Iman Jackson,
Jennifer L. Morgan, Fred Moten, 3
(Cristina Sharpe, referenced in my
essay “Mother's Laws,” in Picturing
‘Motherhood Nove, exh. cat. ed.
Emily Liebert (Cleveland: Clevelan
Museum of Art, 2021), 96-113.

60. Goode Bryant, various convers:
tons with the author.
