ss

alienation and authenticity,” he wrote, “it seems to me
we should first give respectful recognition to the fact that
there are forces in the universe that can even make the
grub-worms have an existential moment.” Can an
exhibition at MoMA be the occasion to acknowledge
the existential importance of the larval state—JAM’s
vital life stage—before the beetles are hatched?

mother/'me-ther/vt
1. a. to give birth to
b. to give rise to, produce
2. to care for, protect

Amid the many unpaid bills in JAM’s records are
carefully kept receipts for the clothing and shoes
Goode Bryant bought for her two children, Kenneth
and Brienin. Just as Goode Bryant insisted on taking
meticulous notes about artist payments, she made sure
her kids showed up prepared for the world. Like debt,
motherhood provided a model for another ongoing
form of payment: what the abolitionist feminist Lisa
Guenther has called the obligation of “bear[ing] the
Other without integrating him or her into the same.”**

AtJAM, artists took license with depictions of
motherhood. When Nengudi’s pendulous R.S.V.P.
sculptures had their New York premiere at the gallery,
in 1977 (see Chronology, p. 39), she contextualized
the works’ inception in an accompanying artist state-
ment: “After giving birth to my own son, I thought of
black wet nurses suckling child after child—their own
as well as others—until their breasts rested on their
knees, their energies drained.”*> Maternal care does not
Tequire conception or childbirth, and for black women
‘has been both “coerced and freely given.”**“Black
women’s labors have not been easy to reckon with
conceptually,” Saidiya Hartman has observed of the
difficulty of grasping black women’s socially reproductive
labors through the figure of the striking worker.7A.
gallery owner who, rather than paying her bills, asked
people questions and held space for the labor of care
is an unlikely figure in certain narratives of revolution.
Black women artists and art workers have provided
the sustenance and service necessary to reproduce
the creative order on which museums like MoMA.
est, yet they have not been recognized for the work of
their imaginations. Nevertheless, Goode Bryant and
those who volunteered at JAM prioritized caring for
and about a broad community, At a time when “Black
nationalism looked like paintings of mothers suckling
their young in pigments of red, black and green,” she
proposed another aesthetic for affiliation,

The business of art and the business of mothering
were at times blurred. Part of volunteering at FAM was
babysitting, picking kids up, dropping her kids off. We all
Rind of hung out at the apartment (Janet Olivia Henry),

Goode Bryant’s Upper West Side home became the
first stop for many artists finding their footing in a new
city, and a second location for gallery operations that
proved more reliable as JAM moved from one place

to another. Linda’s apartment was the place where a lot
of the proposals were written. Everyone just hung out and
worked until they got the project done. There were some
attempts at songwriting, too. There was a woman there—
tall and thin—who played the piano. The space was like an
incubator for all kinds of interesting stuff. You could just go
there and freely toss out suggestions and try to come up with
an idea for a project (Faythe Weaver).

As Goode Bryant’s kids grew up, they contributed
to the gallery’s livelihood, too. Kenny was seven years
old but had clearly picked up pointers on selling art. At one
exhibit, somebody wanted a piece of his artwork but claimed
he couldn’t afford Kenny’s price. So Kenny told him he
could make installment payments and pick it up once it
was paid off (Pat Cummings). Kenneth and Brienin also
provided creative inspiration, modeling for JAM staff
member Pat Cummings’s first children’s book, Willie’s
Not the Hugging Kind (1989; fig. 6), the story of a boy
who becomes reluctant to show physical affection as
he grows into adolescence but learns little by little the
value of physical contact with loved ones.

Over the last four years, Linda has kept me alive
professionally. As some cultural institutions have treated
racial exclusion as a problem that can be trained away
through workshops, her alternative approach has kept
me afloat. Over the last four years, Linda has also driven

Fis. 6

Hugging Kind (1989) big
lugging Kin '
Durham Barrett mets

53, Tate, "What's the Difference,” 3.

54, Lisa Guenther, “Like a Matersd
Body’; Emmanuel Levinas andthe
‘Motherhood of Moses," in “Maternal
Bodies,” special issue, Hypatia 21,
no. 1 (Winter 2006): 119,

55. Senga Nengual, eris's statement,
quoted in John Perreault, “Senga
Nengudi—Just Above Midtown
Gallery,” SoHo New, March 24-30,
1977,

56, Saidiya Hartman, “The Belly f
the World: A Note on Black Wersea's
Labors,” Souls 18, no. 1 Ganuan=
March 2016): 171,

57. Hartman, “The Belly ofthe
World,” 167.

58. Goode Bryant, interview by
Rujeko Hockley, BOMB, Apai 11,
2019.
