In the titular essay, the authors conceptualized
the “Contextures” movement—its name a portman-
teau of “context” and “textures”—which had, in their
view, been developing since the early 1970s on both
the East and West Coasts. Its members worked in a vari-
ety of nonrepresentational styles but were united in
their radical departure from the self-referential modes
of abstraction that had defined the previous decades.
“After determining and clarifying the inherent proper-
ties of art,” Houston Conwill, Susan Fitzsimmons, David
Hammons, Wendy Ward Ehlers, Howardena Pindell,
and other Contexturalists moved “outside its margin

and wood are positioned around @ book of European
abstract art, a e of a Corner (1977;

see right), which likewise features found objects but
“breaks” from its wooden frame by engaging with its
environment, its composition accentuating the corner
in which it is installed.**

Self-published and self-funded, Contextures is part
of a lineage of Black feminist scholarship produced in
response to the absence of existing critical writing on
Black artists. As Samella S. Lewis and Ruth Waddy had
done in their two-volume Black Artists on Art (1969-71),
Goode Bryant and Philips interviewed artists to ensure
that their voices remained central to the project.** While
Black Artists included few artists making nonrepresen-
tational work, however, Contextures focused specif-
ically on the “abstract continuum.” The introductory
essay, “Abstract American Art: 1945-1978,” situated art-
ists like Ed Clark and William T. Williams within lineages
of Abstract Expressionism and hard-edge painting, rein-
scribing the contributions of African American artists to
the language of abstraction.

Contextures was produced independently from
any single show, but its theoretical framework reverber-
ated across multiple exhibitions.” These included The
Concept as Art (1977) and The Process as Art: In Situ
(1978), both held at JAM, and two shows that Goode
Bryant organized elsewhere: Contextures ‘78, at the

Edward Kennedy “Duke” Ellington School of the Arts,
in Washington, DC (1978), and Remains—The Artist
in Environment, at the Emily Lowe Gallery at Hofstra
University, in Hempstead, New York (1979). —EB

Apr7- Contextures ’78

‘’pr2i Banerjee, Wendy Ward Ehlers, Susan
Fitzsimmons, David Hammons, Noah Jemison,
Senga Nengudi, Randy Williams
Organized by JAM at the Edward Kennedy
“Duke” Ellington School of the Arts,
Washington, DC

Apr ti- Jeanne Moutoussamy

May 6

South Africa: Impressions

The Black American photographer Jeanne Moutoussamy-
Ashe (then Moutoussamy) debuted a new body of work
depicting everyday life in apartheid South Africa and
the complex interrelations of people living under its
total system of segregation." Woman in Doorway (1977;
see p. 44), one of the forty-five black-and-white and
color pictures featured, captures an intimate encoun-
ter between photographer and subject, the smile on the
latter's face an acknowledgment of being seen. Another
work, Sally Motlana in Her Store (1978), documents a
prominent political activist and community leader in
Soweto at the grocery she owned in town, in the middle
of a conversation near the meat counter, Breaking from
traditional photographic depictions of heroism, the
image is suffused with a sense of familiarity and focuses
on the quiet power of true connection.

‘opposrte Invitation to A Book
Party for Contextures, 1978

blades, video bo:

vas. Shown installed in the
exhibition The Concept as
Art, 1977

43. Goode Bryant and Philips, 3940

44. Goode Bryant and Philips,
acknowledgments, Contextures, 5.

45. Goode Bryant and Philips, 78.

46. Samella S. Lewis and Ruth
Waddy, Black Arzists on Art, 2 vols.
(Los Angeles: Contemporary Crafts,
1969-71).

47. A statement on the last page of
Contextures asserts that the book
was prepared for the exhibition
The Afro-American Artists in the
Abstract Continuum of American Are:
1944-1957, but this show never
materialized.

48."The exhibition featured “pho-

Harry Oppenheimer, President and
Chairman of the Anglo-American,
Corporation.” KwaZulu is now
KwaZulu-Natal, Press release for
‘South Africa: Impressions, n.d. (1978).
JAM Records, Box 57, “Jeanne
‘Moutoussamy.”
