LerT Wade Mill
tor, outside
Midtown/Downtown durdi
exhibition About TV,
In the window: a video

installation by Bernd Kracks

FAR LEFT Brochure for the
exhibition About TV, 1983

70. The Red Bar was “a hangout for

artists like Jean Michel Basquiat and
Keith Haring." "New York Songlines:
‘7th Street," hupyeww-nysonglines,

com/7st.htm,

71. Osterhout, quoted in Renny:
Pritikin, “Art and Context: The Motel
‘Tapes 2,” Send Magazine, Summer
1983, 41. This was a publication of
the San Francisco Video Festival,

latest communication technologies, dismantling the
traditional boundaries of art and affirming the influence
that video had on the world.

Daily video screenings, organized thematically, fea-
tured works that ruptured the medium’s neutral veneer.
In The Perfect Leader (1983), for example, Max Almy
deftly utilized media techniques to render visible the

Karen Finley and Tony Oursler, was originally shown
between pornographic films at a love hotel. Osterhout’s
primary audience was not the art world but “the people
in their rooms.” The Motel Tapes, and About TV more
generally, demonstrated the genre-defying capabilities

q

|

of experimental shorts by numerous artists, including |
|

construction of televised authority. A dystopian com-
puter program cycles through the various characteris-
tics of an archetypal white male to create “the perfect
leader,” a seductive combination of charisma, moral-
ity, and palatable force. As symbols of power and other
imagery collide, intensified by a fast-paced soundtrack,
Almy’s montage reaches a fever pitch, offering a dis-
turbing performance of televisual manipulation.
Another featured work, The Amarillo News Tapes
(1980), resulted from the San Francisco-based collec-
tive T. R. Uthco’s artist residency at KVII-TV, a local sta-
tion in Amarillo, Texas. In one scene, the artists receive
instructions from a reporter on their news delivery,
while in another, anchors recite absurdist scripts written
by the artists. Through satirical subversion, works like
the News Tapes called the legitimacy of the media into
question. Elsewhere in the exhibition, Atkins showed
footage of CBS News anchor Dan Rather's testimony at
aslander trial against him and his show, 60 Minutes, that
had taken place earlier in the year. Serving as a foil to
T. R. Uthco’s humorous work, the real-life footage rein-
forced the gravity of what was at stake in About TV—
issues of truth and authorship.
The exhibition concluded with a special screen-
ing of The Motel Tapes | & II at the Red Bar on First
Avenue?? Produced by Mike Osterhout, this collection

of video, a medium that would become central to JAM’s |

program in the years that followed. —eB

Nov3 Brian Moran with Liz Wing
and Chris Craig
Stop That Before You Kids
Get Hurt!
Performance (AD)

Nov 3 William Pope [Pope.L]
A Communications Device; An Exer-
cise...Something that has to
do with an attempt to speak of a
particular kind of distress, i.e.
anxiety//something which in making
the attempt speaks its inability
to do so...[or Anxiety Speaks//
Not Us]
Performance (AD)

Noa Eric Schmidt
The Piano above Heaven
Performance (AD)

