how to be social with collectors. An artist had to come to
dinner with the collector and, these white dealers’ argu-
ment went, Black artists would be uncomfortable with white
collectors. Which was bizarre. Like, what would happen? We
wouldn't know how to use a fork? Wouldn't be able to speak
the language? Sometimes people say the most offensive shit
and reveal themselves in the process.

Ivan Karp telling me art was a social thing helped me
understand that there's strategy underneath, that selling art
is relationship-based. At JAM, what | said was, “How are we
going to bring people together?” Well, we all know that food
is a good way to get people arounda table. So, the Brunch
with JAM series was one way to do that [see Chronology, p. 36].
‘Away for more people to know about JAM and to build new
relationships.

0 Explain Brunch with JAM.

198 Brunch with JAM was when we would offer lunch fora
few dollars. Faythe Weaver, a dear friend who had done the
Whitney Independent Study Program and was questioning
whether she was going to stay in the art world or do something
else, was a great cook and would make meals and bring them
to the gallery. We would advertise with flyers. AC Hudgins was
working at JAMand became the flyer man, passing out flyers
on the street at seven o'clock in the morning, before people
went to their offices. In addition to being the cheapest lunch
onthe block, it was also homemade and delicious, plus you got
alecture from a curator, historian, or critic.

T® You were doing public programs along with the curatorial
programs. You had earned income from the lunches. All of
that speaks again to this shape-shifting model. You figured
out what was needed and then operated within that, as
‘opposed to just grafting the available models. You used the
model of the gallery butin the least literal way possible.

ta These Black professionals were coming to the gallery,
along with every Black model that was walking a runway,
backup singersin all of these bands, entertainment attorneys
at CBS and ABC. They would come in and buy Palmer Hayden
works and David's body prints because while they were
abstract, they were also figurative. Brunch with JAM became
Sunday brunches with collectors and artists. There were only
a few, but they were key. Black collectors would come and
feel comfortable asking, “How do | know if it’s good?” They
would talk with artists about their work, and artists would
usually reply, “If you like it, it's good.” Conversations devel-
oped into relationships that led to people feeling comfortable
at JAM. Gallery spaces were once alien to us, because we
were excluded from them. JAM was home.

T@ {love the way you've conjured the sense of community
that was created across these different sectors. In 1980, JAM
moved to Tribeca. What was the reason for that move?

168 Our landlord, Bill Judson, who owned part of 50 West
Fifty-Seventh Street, sold his share of the building, which
was then transferred to new owners. | understand from his
attorney that he tried like hell to negotiate for JAM to stay
there, so much so that the new owners said | used juju on Bill.
The new owner said, “We're not buying this juju.” So we had
tomove.

T® And how did you land in Tribeca? How did you find that
‘space?

tee I started looking downtown. For one, we were showing
experimental work, and moving downtown would provide
artists at JAM with the opportunity to cross-fertilize with

Slo @ COR ee eee

BELOW Bill T. Jones, David
Hammons, and Philip Mallory
Jones during rehearsals for
their performance Naming
Things: A Collaboration, at
dust Above Midtown/Downtorn,
Franklin Street, 1983

other experimental artists. We could also lease more space
downtown for less money. At the same time, | wondered,
“What Black folks are going to come to Tribeca?” That was a
concern, to be honest with you. It was one thing tocome to
Fifty-Seventh Street; it was another thing to go downtown

at that time. But ultimately | had faith that Black folks would
continue to come to JAM no matter where it was. So | started
looking for space downtown.

Many of the buildings in Tribeca were used for manufac-
turing. There was a business that ground coffee all day. Some
buildings housed chicken coops; you could smell eggs and
shit. That was Tribeca. The space we ended up in had been
ameat-packer, soit was refrigerated. Artists, friends, and
colleagues came to help us dismantle the refrigeration with
crowbars. It was a bitch of a motherfucker, but we pulled
‘out walls to clear space. I'll never forget when Marcia Tucker
and Dean McNeil, her longtime partner at the time, helped
demolish the refrigeration and offices in the space. | still have
that crowbar somewhere. You could lease Tribeca space
‘onthe cheap. The people buying up those manufacturing
buildings anticipated that professionals would move to
the neighborhood. That's the age-old New York story: Artists
goin first and we invest all of our know-how, moxie, and cre-
ativity to transform that space into something desirable. And
then the real estate developers make a whole bunch of money.
T@ And give the neighborhood the “sensibility.” People clear-
ly came to the Tribeca space. It also seems that the program
shifted. Can you talk about what, why, and how?

168 The start of that shift ties back to one of the earlier
shows at JAM, Statements Known and Statements New [see
Chronology, p. 36]. It wasn’t enough that JAM was on Fifty-
Seventh Street; it was also important to put Black artists in
exhibitions with their white counterparts and let individual
or collective eyes decide if there was really a difference in
the quality of the work. There were white artists who showed
at JAM when we were on Fifty-Seventh Street. Moving to
Tribeca allowed me to explore that more. We now had a
street-level space and the basement, which we converted

opposite Just Above Midtown/
Corporation for Art and
Television, Broadway,
jovation, c, 1984-86

a a <

